Important Coverage 
Considerations
Making sure your insurance fits
Small Business Professionals  
Focused on You
We pride ourselves on understanding the risks present 
in businesses like yours. We work closely with insurance 
carriers who offer dependable products, just like those 
you’ve purchased from us in the past. 
Our dedicated Certificate Team turns around your 
requests faster than ever before.  We know how important 
it is to for you to receive timely and accurate certificates. Our team 
is staffed 24 hours a day, five days a week and will turn around your 
request within one business day. Your certificate requests can be 
sent directly to this team at select_certificates@ajg.com.
Gallagher Perks —  We’re leveraging the power of Gallagher on 
your behalf by delivering discounts on products and services that 
you use in your business and  personal life. Gallagher Perks provides 
real savings to you and your employees. It’s easy to use, just go to 
gallagherperks.com and choose the discounts that best fit your needs.
The Link —  We created a quarterly newsletter that specifically 
identifies topics for small business owners and connects you with 
news and advice tailored just for you. For past issues, please visit 
gallagherperks.com and click on The Link Newsletter in the top 
navigation bar.
Gallagher Claims Advocacy  — For routine claims, the most 
effective method of reporting your claim is to contact the carrier 
directly. However, we know that not all claims are routine, and 
sometimes claims can be challenging and stressful. We have a claims 
team available to assist you in communicating with your carrier and 
quickly resolve your claim.  
The Select claims advocacy team can be reached at selectclaims@ajg.com 
or 833.948.1096. Please contact them if you have a claim that you need 
assistance with reporting or resolving.
Gallagher Go Self Service Portal  — You have access to an 
easy-to-use website and mobile app that allows you to manage your 
insurance needs on the go. You can create or request a certificate 
of insurance, generate autoID cards, request changes to your policy 
and much more. Register your account at gallaghergo.csr24.com.
gallaghersmallbusiness.com 

Aviation/Drone Coverage 
Insurance for physical damage 
to airplanes or drones and liability 
arising from businesses that own 
planes or are within the aviation 
industry.
Business Auto Coverage  
Insurance for exposures faced 
by businesses using automobiles in 
the course of their business. Consider 
this coverage if your business has 
Owned, Hired and Non-Owned 
Autos, Rented or Leased vehicles, or 
if employees drive their own vehicles 
for business.Business Income and Extra 
Expense Coverage  
A property coverage that reimburses 
lost income and additional expenses 
in an event you’re your business closes 
due to a covered loss. Some expenses 
that this coverage can assist with are: 
mortgage or rent payments, employee 
wages, loss of income during the 
period of restoration, certain additional 
costs to get the business reopened.
Crime Coverage  
A generic term used to 
encompass the variety of crime 
coverage forms available to protect 
against losses of money, securities 
and property by such causes of loss 
as Employee Dishonesty, Forgery 
or Alteration, Theft of Money and 
Securities, Burglary and Robbery.
 Cyber and Data Breach 
Coverage   
A data breach is the intentional or 
unintentional release of confidential 
or personally identifiable information 
of clients or employees to an 
untrusted environment. (Leaks, 
hacks, lost laptop, disgruntled 
employees, etc.) Commercial 
property and liability policies either 
exclude cyber risk losses or provide 
very limited coverage. Cyber liability 
policies may include Third Party 
Privacy Liability, Breach Notification, 
Credit Card Monitoring Service, Media 
Liability, System Damage & Business 
Interruption, Regulatory Proceedings, 
Threats & Extortion, and Payment 
Card Fines or Penalties.
Eliminate 
Uncovered Risks
It’s important to understand 
any uninsured risks your 
business faces. Some risks may 
be excluded from the policies 
you currently purchase. While 
some risks may be uninsurable, 
we offer an extensive array of 
products that can cover many  
of the exposures companies  
like yours encounter. Please 
review the list below for some 
common examples of these 
risks. Let us know if you would 
like more information regarding 
any of these exposures or any 
available products we offer to 
cover these risks. 
Product Recall Coverage 
Provides coverage for the 
insured who is recalling distributed 
products suspected of being 
defective or contaminated. The 
insurance can cover the expenses 
incurred for either a mandated or 
voluntary product recall.
Professional Liability 
Coverage 
Indemnifies the insured for third-party 
liability claims due to negligence, error 
or omission and misrepresentation 
in the performance of professional 
services. Professionals include doctors, 
lawyers, counselors, social workers, 
caregivers, nurses, accountants, 
architects, engineers, insurance agents, 
certain contractors and others.
Workers’ Compensation and 
Employers’ Liability 
Covers costs associated with an 
employee’s work related injuries. These 
costs often include, but are not limited 
to, medical treatment, lost wages and 
defense costs associated with claims.Flood Coverage 
Covers buildings and their 
contents against direct loss by flood, as 
defined by FEMA, which is otherwise 
excluded under standard commercial 
property forms. 
Life And Employee  
Benefit Coverages 
Gallagher Benefits Services also 
provides many types of individual and 
group Life and Health products such as: 
•  Life Insurance 
•  Long-Term Care 
•  Disability Insurance 
•  Individual Health Insurance 
•  Group Health Insurance 
•  Dental and Vision Insurance 
•  Medicare Supplement Insurance
Pollution Coverage  
Provides protection for the 
liability exposures that may result from 
damage, injury, and in some cases, 
clean-up costs caused by pollution. 
Directors and Officers  
Liability Coverage 
Provides Directors and Officers personal 
liability and financial loss protection from 
negligent or wrongful acts during the 
course of their duties.
Earthquake Coverage 
Extends those causes of loss for 
which covered property is insured, to 
include earthquake and earth movement.
Employment Practices  
Liability Coverage 
Protects individual owners, corporations, 
directors and officers and employees 
for claims resulting from wrongful 
termination, discrimination, sexual 
harassment, wrongful discipline and 
failure to employ or promote.
Event Cancellation Coverage 
Provides coverage for the loss 
of revenue or expenses incurred due to 
an event cancellation, abandonment, 
interruption, curtailment, postponement 
or relocation caused by covered perils as 
defined in the policy.
Note: This list is not intended 
to be all-inclusive and may 
not include all coverages 
needed to insure your 
business exposures. This list 
may include coverages for 
which you currently have 
insurance. Please consult 
with your Gallagher Service 
Team on any questions or to 
request a quote.
Important Message: 
Gallagher’s team can advise you on additional products  
available to help you protect your business….
Change in Operations
It is important that we be advised of any changes in your operations that may have a bearing on the 
validity and/or adequacy of your insurance. The types of changes could include, but are not limited, 
to the following:
• Changes in any operation, such as expansion to  
another state.
• New products or services you may be providing.
• Mergers and/or acquisitions of new companies  
or changes in current ownership.
• Any newly assumed contractual liability, granting  
of indemnities or hold harmless agreements.
• Circumstances that may require increased liability  
insurance limits.
• Company property that is in transit, unless we have  
previously arranged for the insurance.
• Host events, such as tradeshows, golf outings,  
charity events, parties, etc.• Any changes in fire or theft protection, such as the  
installation or disconnection of sprinkler systems, 
addition or removal of fire extinguishers, burglar  
alarms, etc. This includes any alterations of the same.
• Changes to scheduled equipment, such as  
contractors’ equipment, electronic data  
processing, etc.
• Any changes in existing premises, including but not  
limited to, vacancy (whether temporary or  
permanent), alterations, demolition, etc.
• Any new premises or equipment purchased, 
constructed or occupied.As experienced insurance brokers and risk advisors, Gallagher’s 
team of insurance professionals can advise you on the best 
insurance products available to manage your business risks. Here 
are steps you can take to evaluate your insurance coverage needs:
1. Review your current insurance policy to identify the locations covered by 
the policy, limits of insurance provided, any policy deductibles to which 
you would be subject at the time of a loss and the payroll or sales figures 
used last year to establish the premium.
2. Review the Change in Operations section of this brochure and make note 
of changes in operations that could have a bearing on the validity and/or 
adequacy of your insurance.
3. Review the list provided in “Eliminate Uncovered Risks” to learn more about 
coverages that may be excluded from your current insurance program. 
4. We encourage you to have your Gallagher Service Team take you 
through a detailed Exposure Survey which will help identify additional 
areas where you may have uncovered risks.
Carrier Ratings and Admitted Status Rating
Levels and Categories
Copies of the Best’s Insurance Reports on the insurance companies are 
available upon your request.  In addition, your carrier’s A.M. Best rating will be 
provided to you with your renewal materials.    
Best’s Credit Ratings™ reproduced herein appear under license from A.M. 
Best and do not constitute, either expressly or impliedly, an endorsement of 
Gallagher’s service or its recommendations. A.M. Best is not responsible for 
transcription errors made in presenting Best’s Credit Ratings™. Best’s Credit 
Ratings™ are proprietary and may not be reproduced or distributed without 
the express written permission of A.M. Best.
A Best’s Financial Strength Rating is an independent opinion of an insurer’s 
financial strength and ability to meet its ongoing insurance policy and 
contract obligations. It is not a warranty of a company’s financial strength 
and ability to meet its obligations to policyholders. Best’s Credit Ratings™ are 
under continuous review and subject to change and/or affirmation. For the 
latest Best’s Credit Ratings™ and Guide to Best’s Credit Ratings, visit the A.M. 
Best website ratings.ambest.com.  
Gallagher companies make no representations and warranties concerning 
the solvency of any carrier, nor does it make any representation or warranty 
concerning the rating of the carrier which may change.Gallagher Disclosures
Proposal Disclaimer
Important: The proposal or renewal materials outline certain terms 
and conditions of the insurance proposed by the insurers, based on the 
information provided by your company.  The insurance policies themselves 
must be read to fully understand the terms, coverages, exclusions, 
limitations and/or conditions of the actual policy contract of insurance.  
Policy forms will be made available upon request.  We make no warranties 
with respect to policy limits or coverage considerations of the carrier.
Gallagher is responsible only for the lines of coverage we have placed 
for you. It is understood that any other type of exposure/coverage is 
either self-insured by you or placed by another brokerage firm other than 
Gallagher. If you need help in placing other lines of coverage or covering 
other types of exposures, please contact your Gallagher representative.
Compensation Disclosure 
1. Gallagher Companies are primarily compensated from the usual and 
customary commissions, fees or, where permitted, a combination of 
both, for brokerage and servicing of insurance policies, annuity contracts, 
guarantee contracts and surety bonds (collectively “insurance coverages”) 
handled for a client’s account, which may vary based on market conditions 
and the insurance product placed for the client.  
2. In placing, renewing, consulting on or servicing your insurance 
coverages, Gallagher companies may participate in contingent and 
supplemental commission arrangements with intermediaries and 
insurance companies that provide for additional compensation if certain 
underwriting, profitability, volume or retention goals are achieved. 
Such goals are typically based on the total amount of certain insurance 
coverages placed by Gallagher with the insurance company, not on an 
individual policy basis.  As a result, Gallagher may be considered to have 
an incentive to place your insurance coverages with a particular insurance 
company. If you do not wish to have your commercial insurance placement 
included in consideration for additional compensation, contact your 
producer or service team for an Opt-out form. 
3. Gallagher Companies may receive investment income on fiduciary 
funds temporarily held by them, or from obtaining or generating premium 
finance quotes, unless prohibited by law. 
4. Gallagher Companies may also access or have an ownership interest in 
other facilities, including wholesalers, reinsurance intermediaries, captive 
managers, underwriting managers and others that act as intermediaries 
for both Gallagher and other brokers in the insurance marketplace some 
of which may earn and retain customary brokerage commission and fees 
for their work.
If you have specific questions about any compensation received by 
Gallagher and its affiliates in relation to your insurance placements, please 
contact your Gallagher representative for more details. 
Gallagher Disclosures (continued)
TRIA/TRIPRA Disclaimer  
If this proposal contains options to purchase TRIA/TRIPRA coverage, the 
proposed TRIA/TRIPRA program may not cover all terrorism losses. While 
the amendments to TRIA eliminated the distinction between foreign and 
domestic acts of terrorism, a number of lines of coverage excluded under 
the amendments passed in 2005 remain excluded including commercial 
automobile, burglary and theft insurance; surety insurance, farm owners 
multiple perils and professional liability (although directors and officers 
liability is specifically included). If such excluded coverages are required, 
we recommend that you consider purchasing a separate terrorism 
policy. Please note that a separate terrorism policy for these excluded 
coverages may be necessary to satisfy loan covenants or other contractual 
obligations. TRIPRA includes a $100 billion cap on insurers’ aggregate 
liability.  
TRIPRA is set to expire on December 31, 2027. There is no certainty of 
extension, thus the coverage provided by your insurers may or may 
not extend beyond December 31, 2027. In the event you have loan 
covenants or other contractual obligations requiring that TRIA/TRIPRA be 
maintained throughout the duration of your policy period, we recommend 
that a separate “Stand Alone” terrorism policy be purchased to satisfy 
those obligations.
 
Insurance brokerage and related services provided by Arthur J. Gallagher Risk 
Management Services, LLC. (License Nos. 100292093 and/or 0D69293). 
gallaghersmallbusiness.com
© 2024 Arthur J. Gallagher & Co.  |  1322843525

