CAROLINA CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY  
 
NP 23300-rev0417  Directors, Officers and Organization Liability Insurance Coverage Section  Page 1 of 3 
The descriptions in the headings of this Policy  are solely for convenience, and form no part of the terms and conditions of 
coverage.   
Directors, Officers and Organization Liability Insurance  
Coverage Section  
CLAIMS MADE NOT ICE FOR POLICY  
NOTICE: THIS POLICY PROVIDES COVERAGE ON A CLAIMS MADE AND REPORTED  BASIS. SUBJECT TO ITS 
TERMS, THIS POLICY APPLIES ONLY TO ANY CLAIM FIRST MADE AGAINST THE INSUREDS AND REPORTED 
TO THE INSURER DURING THE POLICY PERIOD OR ANY EXTENDED REPORTING PERIOD THA T MAY APPLY.  
PLEASE  READ  THE  POLICY  CAREFULLY  AND  DISCUSS  THE  COVER AGE  WITH  YOUR  INSURANCE  AGENT  OR BROKER.  
In consideration of the payment of the premium, in reliance on all statements in the Application  and all other information 
provided to the Insurer , and subject to all provisions of this Policy , the Insurer  and Insur eds agree as follows:  
I. Insuring Agreement s 
Directors, Officers and O rganization Liability  Coverage  
A. This Policy  shall pay on behalf of the Insureds  all Costs of Defense and/or Damages  up to the Limit of Liability applicable 
to this c overage section arising from any Claim  first made against the Insureds  during the Policy Period and reported to 
the Insurer  in accordance with section VII. of the Common Policy Terms and Conditions Section of this Policy , for any 
actual or alleged Wrongful Act  committed s ubsequent to the Prior Acts Date ; except and to the extent that the Insured 
Entity  has indemnified the Insured Persons . 
B. This Policy  shall pay on behalf of the Insured  Entity  all Costs of Defense and/or Damages up to the Limit of Liability 
applicable to this coverage section arising from any Claim  that is first made against the Insured  Persons during the Policy  
Period  and reported to the Insurer  in accordance with section VII. of the Common Policy Terms and Cond itions Section of 
this Policy , for any actual or alleged Wrongful  Act committed subsequent to the Prior Acts Date ; but only to the extent 
that the Insured  Entity  has indemnified the Insured  Persons  for such Costs of Defense and/or  Damages  as permitted 
by law. 
C. This Policy  shall pay on behalf of the Insured Entity  all Costs of Defense and/or Damages up to the Limit of Liability 
applicable to this coverage section arising from any Claim  that is first made against the Insured Entity  during the Policy 
Period  and reported to the Insurer  in accordance with section VII. of the Common Policy Terms and Conditions Section of 
this Policy , for any actual or alleged Wrongful Act  committed subsequent to the Prior Acts Date . 
II. Priority  of Payments  
In the event of Costs of Defense and/or  Damages arising from any Claim  for which payment is due under the provisions 
of this coverage section , then the Insurer  shall:  
1. first, pay such non -indemnifiable Costs of Defense and/or  Damages for which coverage is provided under Insuring 
Agreement I. A. of this coverage section;  and 
2. then, with respect to whatever remaining amount of the applicable Limit of Liability stated in Item 5.  of the Declarations 
is available after payment of such non -indemnifiable Costs of Defense and/or  Damages, at the written request of 
the Chief Executive Officer of the Named Insured , either pay or withhold payment of such other Costs of Defense  
and/or Damages for which coverage is provided under this coverage section. 
In the event the Insurer  withholds payment pursuant to sub- paragraph 2. above, then the Insurer  shall at such time and in 
such manner as shall be set forth in written instructions of the Chief Executive Officer of the Named Insured , remit such 
payment to the Named Insured  or directly to the Insured Persons . 
III. Definitions  
In addition to the Definitions listed in section III. of the Common Policy Terms and Conditions Section, whenever printed in boldface 
type, and whether in the singular or plural form, in this coverage section the following terms  shall have the meanings indicated 
below.  
Claim  means : 
1. a written demand for monetary or non- monetary relief including, but not limited to, a civil, criminal, administrative, or 
arbitration proceeding  arising from a Wrongful Act ; 
2. a civil, criminal, administrative, or arbitration proceeding  for monetary or non- monetary relief  filed against an Insured  
arising from a Wrongful Act  which is commenced by: (a) service of a complaint or similar pleading; (b)  return of an 
indictment, information or similar document; or (c) receipt or filing of a notice of charges; or  

CAROLINA CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY  
 
NP 23300-rev0417  Directors, Officers and Organization Liability Insurance Coverage Section  Page 2 of 3 
The descriptions in the headings of this Policy  are solely for convenience, and form no part of the terms and conditions of 
coverage.  3. a written request made by a claimant  to the Named Insured  to toll or waive the statute of limitations for any Wrongful 
Act;  
provided, however , the term Claim  shall not include any grievance or arbitration subject to a collective bargaining agreement  
with respect to Insuring Agreement I. C. of this coverage section . A Claim  shall be deemed to have been first made at the 
time notice of the Claim  is first received by any Insured . 
Costs of Defense means reasonable and necessary fees, costs and expenses (including premiums for any appeal bond, 
attachment bond or similar bond, but without any obligation to apply for or furnish any such bond) resulting solely from the 
investigation, adjustment, defense and appeal of a covered Claim  against the Insureds , but excluding salaries, wages, 
overhead or benefit expenses associated with any Insured , or any amount covered by the duty to defend obligation of any 
other insurer.  
Damages  means : 
1. a monetary judgment, award or settlement ; or 
2. pre-judgment interest and post -judgment interest;  
provided, however, Damages shall not include:  
a. taxes, civil or criminal fines, sanctions or penalties imposed by law ; or 
b. costs incurred by any Insured  to make any building or property more accessible or accommodating to any 
disabled person ; or 
c. commissions, bonuses, deferred compensation, profit sharing or severance payments ; or 
d. disgorgement or restitution payment by or on behalf of any Insured , including disgorgement or restitution of 
amounts retained, obtained, or acquired by an Insured and any settlement payment arising from any actual or 
alleged amount that an Insured  improperly retained, obtained, or acquired; or  
e. any matter deemed uninsurable under the law pursuant to which this Policy  shall be construed.  
Insured Person  means any past, present or future duly elected or appointed directors, trustees, officers, employees (including 
part time, seasonal and temporar y individuals), volunteers, or committee or staff members of the Insured Entity . An 
independent contractor is not an Insured Person under this c overage section.  
Insured  means any Insured Person  or any Insured Entity .  
Loss  means Damages  and Costs of Defense . 
Outside Entity  means:  
1. a nonprofit organization under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, including amendments 
thereto;  or 
2. any other entity organized for a religious or charitable purpose under any nonprofit organization act or statute; or  
3. any other entity, partnership, joint venture or other organization listed by endorsement to this Policy . 
Personal Injury  means any actual or alleged defamation, invasion of privacy, wrongful entry, eviction, false arrest, false 
impris onment, malicious prosecution, infringement of copyright or trademark, unauthorized use of title, plagiarism, or 
misappropriation of ideas.  
Prior Acts Date  means the date stated in Item 8. i. of the Declarations.  
Wrongful Act  means  any actual or alleged br each of duty, neglect, error, misstatement, m isleading statement, omission  or act, 
including Personal Injury , by: 
1. any Insured Person  in their respective capacities as such, or any matter claimed against them by reason of their 
status as Insured Persons  with the Insured Entity ;  
2. any Insured Person  arising out of their serving as a director, officer, trustee, or governor of an Outside Entity  in 
such capacity , but only if such service is at the specific request or direction of the Insured Entity ; or 
3. the Insured Entity . 
IV. Exclusions  
In addition to the Exclusions listed in section IV. of the Common Policy Terms and Conditions Section, the Insurer  shall not be 
liable to make any payment for Loss  in connection with a Claim  made against any Insured : 
A. based upon, arising out of, directly or indirectly resulting from or in consequence of, or in any way involving the actual or 
alleged gaining of any profit or advantage to which an Insured  was not legally entitled; provided, however, this exclusion 
shall not  apply unless a judgment or other final adjudication adverse to any of the Insureds  in such Claim  shall establish 
that such Insureds  gained such profit or advantage to which an Insured  was not legally entitled;  
B. based upon, arising out of, directly or indirectly resulting from or in consequence of, or in any way involving any actual or 
alleged criminal or deliberate fraudulent act; provided, however, this exclusion shall not apply unless a judgment or other 
final adjudication adverse to any of the Insured s in such Claim  shall establish that such Insureds  committed such criminal 
or deliberate fraudulent act;  
CAROLINA CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY  
 
NP 23300-rev0417  Directors, Officers and Organization Liability Insurance Coverage Section  Page 3 of 3 
The descriptions in the headings of this Policy  are solely for convenience, and form no part of the terms and conditions of 
coverage.  C. based upon, arising out of, directly or indirectly resulting from or in consequence of, or in any way involving any actual or 
alleged payments to an Insured  of any remuneration without the previous approval of the governing bodies of the Insured 
Entity , which payment without such previous approval shall be held to have been illegal; provided, however, this exclusion 
shall not apply unless a judgment or other final adjudication adverse to any of the Insureds  in such Claim  shall establish 
that such Insureds  received such payments;  
Solely  with respect to Exclusions A., B. , and C.  of this coverage section , the Insurer  will provide a defense for any such Claims , 
without any liability by the Insurer  to pay such sums that any Insured shall become legally obligated to pay as Damages . 
D. for: 
1. physical damage to or destruction of any tangible property, including t he loss of use thereof;  or 
2. bodily injury, sickness, disease, death, assault or battery of any person;  
E. based upon, arising out of, directly or indirectly resulting from or in consequence of, or in any way involving any actual or  
alleged violation of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of  1974, including amendments thereto;  
F. by, on behalf of, or in the right of any Insured  in any capacity; provided,  however, this exclusion does not apply to:  
1. any Claim  that is a derivative action brought or maintained on behalf of the Insured Entity , and only if such Claim is 
instigated and continued totally independent of, and totally without the solicitation of, or assistance of, or participation 
of, or intervention of any Insured ; or 
2. any Claim  by any Insured Person  pursuant to any federal or state whistleblower protection statute or any regulation 
promulgated thereunder ; provided, however, this exception does not apply to any Claim  arising from any actual or 
potential employment relationship with the Insured Entity ; 
G. based upon, arising out of, directly or indirectly resulting from or in consequence of, or in any way involving any Wrongful 
Act of an Insured Person  serving in the capacity as a director, officers, trustee, employee, member or governor of any 
other entity other than an Insured Entity  or an Outside Entity , or by reason of their status as a director, officer, trustee, 
employee, member or governor of such other entity;  
H. for any Wrongful Act  arising out of an Insured  serving as a director, officer, trustee, employee, member or governor of an 
Outside Entity : 
1. if such Claim  is brought by the Outside Entity  or any of its directors or officers, or by any security holder of the 
Outside Entity , whether directly or derivatively, unless such security holder’s Claim  is instigated and continued totally 
independent of, and totally without the solicitation of, or assistance of, or participation of, or intervention of the Outside 
Entity , any of its directors or officers, or any Insured ; or 
2. if such Wrongful Act  occurred prior to the inception date of the first Nonprofit Directors, Officers and Organization 
Liability Insurance Policy issued by the Insurer  to the Named Insured , which has been continuously renewed and 
maintained in effect prior to the inception of this Policy Period;  or 
3. to the extent such Insured  is indemnified for such Costs of Defense and Damages  by the Outside Entity , and/or  
to the extent that there is cov erage in whole or in part under any policy issued to or for the benefit of any Outside 
Entity  or its directors or officers, then this Policy  shall apply only to Loss  excess over such indemnification and 
insurance(if applicable);  
I. based upon, arising out of, directly or indirectly resulting from, in consequence of, or in any way involving any actual or 
alleged employment -related torts, including  but not limited to : failure to hire; wrongful dismissal ; wrongful discharge; wrongful  
termination;  retaliation ; harassment ; discrimination ; violation of civil rights ; or violation of any federal, state, local or foreign 
laws, whether statutory or common law, concerning discrimination or harassment ; 
J. based upon, arising out of, directly or indirectly resulting from  or in consequence of, or in any way involving any federal, 
state, local or foreign wage and hour laws, whether statutory or common law , including, without limitation, the Fair Labor 
Standards Act;  
K. based upon, arising out of, directly or indirectly resu lting from or in consequence of, or in any way involving any actual or 
alleged breach of any oral or written contract or agreement; provided, however, this exclusion shall not apply to the extent 
that an Insured Entity  would have been liable in the absence of the contract or agreement.  
The Wrongful Act  of an Insured  shall not be imputed to any other Insured  for the purpose of determining the applicability of the 
Exclusions.  
V. Other Insurance  
Unless specifically stated otherwise, the coverage afforded under this coverage section shall apply only as excess over any 
other valid and collectible insurance, unless such other insurance is specifically written as excess insurance over the 
Separate Limit of Liability or Shared L imit of Liability applicable to this coverage section. This coverage section shall be 
excess of any other valid and collectible insurance pursuant to which any other insurer has a duty to defend a Claim  for 
which this coverage section may be obligated to p ay Costs of Defense and/or  Damages . 
CAROLINA CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY  
CT 22330-rev 0417 Common Policy Terms and Conditions Section  Page 1 of 8 
The descriptions in the headings of this Policy  are solely for convenience, and form no part of the terms and conditions of 
coverage.  C
ommon Policy Terms and Conditions Section  
CLAIMS MADE NOTICE FOR POLICY  
NOTICE: THIS POLICY PROVIDES COVERAGE ON  A CLAIMS MADE AND RE PORTED BASIS. SUBJEC T TO ITS 
TERMS, THIS POLICY A PPLIES ONLY TO ANY CLAIM FIRST MADE AGA INST THE INSUREDS AN D REPORTED TO 
THE INSURER DURING THE POLICY PERIOD OR ANY EXTENDED REPORTI NG PERIOD THA T MAY APPLY.  
PLEASE  READ  THE  POLICY  CAREFULLY  AND  DISCUSS  THE  COVERAGE  WITH  YOUR  INSURANCE  AGENT  OR BROKER.  
In consideration of the payment of the premium, in reliance on all statements in the Application  and all other information provided 
to the Insurer , and subject to all provisions of this Policy , the Insurer  and Insureds  agree as follows:  
I. Common Policy Terms and Conditions Section 
The Common Policy Terms and Conditions Section of this Policy  shall apply to all Coverage Sections and endorsements .  Unl ess 
stated to the contrary in any Coverage Section  or endorsement , the terms and conditions of each Coverage Section  of this 
Policy  shall apply only to that Coverage Section  and shall not apply to any other Coverage Section  of this Policy .  If any 
provision in the Common Policy Terms and Conditions Section is inconsistent or in conflict with the terms and conditions of any 
Coverage Section  or endorsement , the terms and conditions of such Coverage Section  or endorsement  shall control for th e 
purposes of that Coverage Section  or endorsement.  Any defined term referenced in this Common Policy Terms and Conditions 
Section and also defined in a Coverage Section  or endorsement  shall, for the purposes of coverage under that Coverage Section  
or end orsement , have the meaning set forth in that Coverage Section  or endorsement .  
II. Extended Reporting Periods
A. Optional Extended Reporting Period  
1. If this Policy  is cancelled or non-renewed by the Insurer  for reason other than non-payment of premium, or if the
Named Insured elects to cancel or non-renew this  Policy , then the Named Insured shall have the right, upon
payment of the additional premium described in sub- paragraph 5. below, to purchase an extension of the reporting
period of this Policy  for any Claim that is first made against the Insured during such period  but only with respect to
any Wrongful Act fully occurring prior to the end of the Policy Period  and which is  otherwise covered by this  Policy .
Such period of time shall be referred to as the Optional Extended Reporting Period.
2. The right to purchase the Optional Extended Reporting P eriod  must be exercised by the Named Insured within thirty
(30) days  of the end of the Policy Period  by providing written notice to the Insurer along with the additional premium.
3. If purchased, the Optional Extended Reporting Period shall begin on the date the Policy Period ends .
4. As a condition precedent to the right to purchase the Optional Extended Reporting P eriod, the total premium for the
Policy must have been paid and any deductible obligations met by the Insureds .
5. The additional premium for the  Optional Extended Reporting P eriod  shall be based upon the annual premium for the
Policy  in effect on the date this Policy  was issued or last renewed and shall be: fifty percent (50%) of such annual
premium for one (1) year; seventy five percent (75%) of such annual premium for two (2) years; or one hundred
percent (100%) of such annual premium for three (3) years.
6. In the event of a Transaction described in Section VIII. D. of the Common Policy Terms and Conditions Section, the
Named Insured  has the right to purchase a Run -off Period pursuant to the terms of Section II. C. below.
7. The entire premium for the Optional Extended Reporting P eriod shall be deemed fully earned at its commencement.
8. The Limit of Liability for the Optional Extended Reporting P eriod  shall be part of, and not in addition to, the Limits of
Liability stated in Item 5. of the Declaratio ns for this Policy .
B. Automatic Extended Reporting  Period  
1. If the Named Insured  cancels or if the Insurer  or the Named Insured  refuses to renew this Policy  and the Named
Insured  has not purchased any similar insurance policy(ies) there shall be a sixty  (60) day automatic extension of the
reporting period of this Policy  for any Claim  first made against an Insured  and reported during such sixty (60) day
period after the date upon which the Policy Period  ends, but only with respect to any Wrongful Act  fully occurring
prior to the end of the Policy Period and otherwise covered by this Policy . This sixty (60) day period shall be referred
to as the Automatic Extended Reporting Period. There shall be no additional premium for the Automatic Extended
Reporti ng Period.
2. The Limit of Liability for the Automatic Extended Reporting P eriod  shall be part of, and not in addition to, the Limits
of Liability stated in Item 5. of the Declarations  for this Policy .

CAROLINA CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY  
CT 22330-rev 0417 Common Policy Terms and Conditions Section  Page 2 of 8 
The descriptions in the headings of this Policy  are solely for convenience, and form no part of the terms and conditions of 
coverage.  C. Run-Off Period in the E vent of a Transaction  
1. In the event of a Transaction described in section VIII. D. of the  Common Policy Terms and Conditions Section , the
Named Insured  shall have the right, upon payment of the additional premium described in sub -paragraph 5. below, 
to purchase an extension of the reporting period of this Policy  for any Claim that is first made against the  Insured 
during such period but only with respect to any Wrongful Act fully occurring prior to the end of the Policy Period  
and which is  otherwise covered by this  Policy . Such period of time shall be referred to as the Run-off Period.   
2. The right to purc hase the Run-Off Period must be exercised by the Named Insured within sixty (60) days of the end
of the Policy Period by providing written notice to the Insurer along with the additional premium. 
3. I
f purchased, the Run -Off Period  shall begin on the date the Policy Period ends .
4. As a condition precedent to the right to purchase the Run -Off Period , the total premium for the Policy must have
been paid and any deductible obligations met by the Insureds .
5. The additional premium for the Run -Off Period  shall be based upon the annual rates for the Policy  in effect on the
date this Policy  was issued or last renewed and shall be: seventy five percent (75%) of such annual premium for one
(1) year; one hundred percent (100%) of such annual premium for two (2) years; one hundred twenty five percent
(125%) of such annual premium  for three (3) years ; or two hundred twenty five percent ( 225%) of  such annual
premium for six (6) years .
6. The entire premium for the Run-Off Period  shall be deemed fully earned at its commencement.
7. The Limit of Liability for the Run-off P eriod shall be part of, and not in addition to, the Limits of Liability stated in Item
5. of the Declarations  for this Policy ..
III. Definitions
Whenever printed in boldface type and whether in the singular or plural form in this Policy , the following terms  shall have the 
meanings indicated below.  
Application means the Application Form(s) and any material submitted therewith.  
Claim  shall have the meaning set forth in each applicable Coverage Section  or any applicable endorsement attached to this  
Policy . 
Costs of D efense shall have the meaning set forth in each applicable Coverage Section  or any applicable endorsement attached 
to this  Policy . 
Coverage Section  means, individually or collectively, the purchased Coverage Sections  listed in Item 3. of the Declarations and 
attached to this Policy . 
Damages shall have the meaning set forth in each applicable Coverage Section  or any applicable endorsement attached to this  
Policy . 
Where insurable, Damages also means : liquidated, punitive, or exemplary damages, or any multiplied damages award in 
excess of the amount so multiplied. Such coverage for liquidated, punitive, exemplary or multiplied damages is part of and 
not in addition to the Limit of Liability, and any payment of such D amages shall serve to reduce the Limit of Liability. Only 
for the purpose of resolving any dispute between the Insurer  and the Insured  regarding whether such liquidated, punitive, 
exemplary or multiplied damages are insurable under this Policy , the law of the jurisdiction most favorable to the insurability 
of those damages shall control, provided that such jurisdiction is where:  
1. those damages were awarded or imposed;  or
2. any Wrongful Act  occurred for which such damages were awarded or im posed;  or
3. the Insured  resides, is incorporated or has its principal place of business;  or
4. the Insurer  is incorporated or has its principal place of business.
Domestic Partner  means any person who qualifies as a D omestic Partner  under the provisions of any federal, state or local 
statute or regulation (whether such status is derived by reason of statutory law, common law or otherwise, of any applicable 
jurisdiction in the world), or under the terms and provisions of any employee benefit or other program established by the 
Named Insured .  
Insured means:  
1. any duly elected or appointed director , trustee  or officer of an Insured Entity , or
2. any  Insured Entity ;
unless modified by an applicable Coverage Section  or any applicable endorsement attached to this  Policy . 
Insured Entity  means the Named Insured  and any Subsidiary . 
Insured P erson  shall have the meaning set forth in each applicable Coverage Section  or any applicable endorsement attached 
to this  Policy . 
This Policy  shall cover Costs of D efense and Damages arising from a Claim  made against:  
CAROLINA CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY  
 
CT 22330-rev 0417 Common Policy Terms and Conditions Section  Page 3 of 8 
The descriptions in the headings of this Policy  are solely for convenience, and form no part of the terms and conditions of 
coverage.  1. the heirs, executors, administrators, and legal representatives of an Insured Person  in the event of death, incapacity 
or bankruptcy, but solely with respect to the liability of an Insured Person  as otherwise covered by this Policy ; or 
2. the lawful spouse or Domestic Partner  of an Insured  Person  for a Claim  arising solely out of his or her status as 
the spouse or Domestic Partner  of an Insured Person , including a Claim  that seeks damages recoverable from 
marital community property, property jointly held by the Insured Person  and the spouse or Domestic Partner , or 
property transferred from the Insured Person  to the spouse or Domestic P artner . As used herein, spouse shall 
include a person that  is party to a civil union with the Insured Person  if they establish such civil union under the 
licensing process established by the applicable jurisdiction. However, this extension shall not afford coverage for any 
Claim  for any Wrongful Act  of the spouse  or Domestic Partner , but shall apply only to Claims  arising out of any 
Wrongful Act  of an Insured Person . 
Insurer  means the entity issuing this Policy  as listed on the Declarations Page.  
Loss  means Damages  and Costs of Defense . 
Named Insured  means the entity designated in Item 1. of the Declarations.  
Policy  means, collectively, the Declarations, the Common Policy Terms and Conditions Section, the Coverage Sections, and 
the Application.  
Policy Period means the period of time from the inceptio n date shown in Item 2. of the Declarations to the earlier of the expiration 
date shown in Item 2. of the Declarations or the effective date of cancellation of this Policy . 
Related Wrongful A cts means Wrongful Acts  which are the same as, related or continuous or that  are logically or causally 
connected by reason of any common fact, circumstance, situation, transaction, casualty, event or decision.  
Subsidiary  means  an entity which qualifies as a nonprofit organization under Section 501(c)(3), (c)(4), (c)(6),  (c)(7), (c)(8), (c)(10), 
or (c)(13) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, including amendments thereto and which the Named  Insured has or 
controls the right to elect or appoint more than 50 percent of the Board of Directors (or other governing body) on or  before 
the inception of the Policy Period.   
The term Subsidiary  shall not mean any political committee organized pursuant to Section 432 of the Federal Election 
Campaign Act of 1971, including amendments thereto.  
In all events, coverage as is afforded with respect to a Claim  made against a Subsidiary  shall only apply for Wrongful 
Acts  committed or allegedly committed after the effective time that such Subsidiary  became a Subsidiary  and prior to the 
time that such Subsidiary  ceased to be a Subsidiary . 
An entity ceases to be a Subsidiary  when the Named  Insured  ceases to control the right to elect or appoint more than 50 
percent of the Board of Directors (or other governing body) , or ceases to continue as an ongoing entity . 
If during the Policy Period  the Insured Entity  forms or acquires a Subsidiary , this Policy  shall apply:  
1. Automatically for a Subsidiary , whose assets are less than thirty five percent (35%) of the total consolidated assets 
of the Insured Entity  as of the Policy  inception date; or  
2. If the  assets of such Subsidiary  are equal to or greater than thirty five percent (35%) of the total consolidated assets 
of the Insured Entity  as of the Policy  inception date, then only upon the condition that within ninety ( 90) days of it 
becoming a Subsidiary , the Named Insured  provides the Insurer  in writing with full particulars of the new 
Subsidiary  and agrees to any additional premium and/or amendment of the provisions of this Policy  required by the 
Insurer  related to such new Subsidiary . Further, coverage as shall be afforded to the new Subsidiary  is conditioned 
upon the Named Insured  paying when due any additional premium required by the Insurer  relating to such new 
Subsidiary . 
Wrongful A ct shall have the meaning set forth in each applicable Coverage Section  or any applicable endorsement attached to 
this Policy . 
IV. Exclusions  
The Insurer  shall not be liable to make any payment for Loss  in connection with a Claim  made against any Insured : 
A. based upon, ari sing out of, directly or indirectly resulting from or in consequence of, or in any way involving any actual or 
alleged nuclear reaction, radiation or contamination, regardless of cause;  
B. based upon, arising out of, directly or indirectly resulting from or in consequence of, or in any way involving any actual or 
alleged seepage, pollution or contamination of any kind;  
C. based upon, arising out of, directly or indirectly resulting from or in consequence of, or in any way involving:  
1. any Wrongful Act  alleged in any claim which has been reported, or in any circumstance of which notice has been 
given, prior to the Policy Period  under any other policy;  or 
2. any other Wrongful Act  whenever occurring, which together with a Wrongful Act  which has been the subj ect of 
such claim or notice, would constitute Related Wrongful Acts . 
CAROLINA CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY  
 
CT 22330-rev 0417 Common Policy Terms and Conditions Section  Page 4 of 8 
The descriptions in the headings of this Policy  are solely for convenience, and form no part of the terms and conditions of 
coverage.  V. Limits of Liability and Deductibles  
A. Limits of Liability  
1. Costs of Defense Reduce the Limit of Liability  
If Costs of Defense Reduce the Limit of Liability is purchased, as stated in Item 4. A. of the Declarations, then Costs 
of Defense are part of Loss  and payment thereof will reduce the Limit of Liability available to pay Damages.  Costs 
of Defense are not payable by the Insure r in addition to any applicable Limit of Liability  stated in Item 5. of the 
Declarations. The Insurer’s  liability for all Loss  arising out of all Claims  first made against the Insureds  during the 
Policy Period and reported to the Insurer in accordance with section VII. Notice of Claims of this Policy  shall not 
exceed the amount (s) stated in Item 5 . of the Declarations  for the purchased Coverage Section (s). 
2. Costs of Defense in Addition to the Limit of Liability  
If Costs of Defense in Addition to the Limit of Liability is purchased, as stated in Item 4. B. of the Declarations, Costs 
of Defense  shall be separate and in addition to the applicable Limits of Liability stated in Item 5. of the Declarations. 
Payment of Costs of Defense  shall not reduce the applicable Limits of Liability stated in Item 5. of the Declarations.  
The Insurer’s  liability for all Damages arising out of all Claims  first made against the Insureds  during the Policy 
Period and reported to the Insurer in accordance wi th section VII. Notice of Claims of this Policy  shall not exceed 
the amount (s) stated in Item 5 . of the Declarations  for the purchased Coverage Section (s). 
In the event the applicable Limit (s) of Liability stated in Item 5. of the Declarations is  exhausted by payment of 
Damages , or has been tendered to or on behalf of the Insured , then any and all obligations of the Insurer  hereunder 
shall be deemed to be completely fulfilled and extinguished.  
3. Shared Policy Limit of Liability  
If Shared Policy Limit of Liability for all Coverage Sections is purchased, as stated in Item 5.  A. of the Declarations, 
then the Insurer’s  liability for all Claims  covered by  the Coverage Sections purchased shall not exceed the 
Aggregate Limit of Liability stated in Item 5 . A. of the Declarations.  
4. Separate Limit of Liability  
If Separate Limit of Liability for each Coverage Section  is purchased, as stated in Item 5. B. of the Declarations, then 
the Insurer’s  liability for all Claims covered by each Coverage Section  purchased shall not exceed the Separate 
Aggregate Limit of Liability  stated in Item 5 . B. of the Declarations . 
B. Exhaustion of Limit of Liability  
1. In the event the applicable Lim it of Liability stated in Item 5 . of the Declarations, or any applicable sub-limit stated in 
this Policy , is exhausted by payment of Costs of Defense and /or Damages, or has been offered or tendered to, or 
on behalf of, the  Insured , or to a court of competent jurisdiction, then any and al l obligations of the Insurer  hereunder 
shall be deemed to be completely fulfilled and extinguished.  
2. Unless otherwise stated, all Limits of Liability for this Policy , including any sub-limit(s), will apply in the aggregate to 
all covered Claims . In no ev ent shall the Insurer  be liable to make any payment for  Costs of Defense and/or  
Damages  in excess of the Limit( s) of Liability stated in Item 5 . of the Declarations or any applicable sub-limit stated 
in this Policy . 
3. The Insurer  is not obligated to inves tigate, defend, pay or settle, or continue to investigate, defend, pay or settle a 
Claim after the applicable limit of the Insurer’s  liability has been exhausted by payment of Damages or Costs of 
Defense or by any combination thereof or after the Insurer  has deposited the remaining available Limit  of Liability 
into a court of competent jurisdiction. In such case, the Insurer  shall have the right to withdraw from the further 
investigation, defense, payment or settlement of such Claim  by tendering control of said investigation, defense or 
settlement of the Claim  to the Insured . 
C. Multiple Coverage Sections  or Endorsements  
In the event a Claim  is covered under more than one Coverage Section or endorsement  and such Coverage Sections  or 
endorsement s are not subject to a Shared Policy Limit of Liability, the Insurer  shall pay covered Damages based on the 
terms of each applicable Coverage Section  or endorsement  and allocated to each applicable Coverage Section  or 
endorsement  on the basis of the relative legal and financial exposures of the parties pursuant to the applicable Coverage 
Sections  or endorsement s, as determined by the Insurer . The Insurer  shall pay covered Costs of Defense based on the 
terms of each applicable Coverage Section  or endorsement , to be distributed equally against all applicable Coverage 
Sections  or endorsement s. Any Costs of Defense and /or Damages paid shall reduce the applicable sub- limit or Limit of 
Liability of such Coverage Sections  or endorsement s. In no event  shall the Insurer  be liable to pay Costs of Defense 
and/or  Damages  for such Claim  in excess of the largest Limit of Liability available under the Coverage  Sections  or 
endorsement s applicable to such Claim . 
CAROLINA CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY  
 
CT 22330-rev 0417 Common Policy Terms and Conditions Section  Page 5 of 8 
The descriptions in the headings of this Policy  are solely for convenience, and form no part of the terms and conditions of 
coverage.  D. Deductibles  
1. The Insurer  shall only be liable for the amount of Loss  arising from a Claim  which is in excess of the applicable 
Deductible amount stated in Item 6. of the Declarations. Such Deductible amount shall be borne by the Named  
Insured  and shall apply to each and every Cla im. In the event a Claim  is covered under more than one Coverage 
Section  or endorsement , the largest applicable Deductible shall apply.  If the Named Insured  fails to pay the 
Deductible, then all Insureds  shall be jointly and severally obligated to pay the Deductible.  
2. If the Insurer  advances any Loss  within the applicable Deductible, the Named  Insured  shall, upon written demand, 
reimburse the Insurer  for such amounts within thirty (30) days .  Any funds so advanced by the Insurer  at its option, 
shall serve to reduce the Limit of Liability to the extent that they are not repaid to the Insurer .  If the Insurer  brings 
suit to collect the Deductible, then the Insured  responsible to pay the applicable Deductible also shall pay the lega l 
fees, costs and expenses incurred by the Insurer  to collect the Deductible.  
VI. Defense, Cooperation and Settlements  
A. Consent 
No Insured  shall admit or assume liability, enter into any settlement agreement, make any offer of settlement or 
compromise, stipulate to any judgment, agree to arbitration, or incur Costs of Defense without the Insurer's prior written 
consent. The Insurer’s  consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, provided that the Insurer  shall be entitled to full 
information and all particulars it may request in order to reach a decision regarding such consent. Any Costs of Defense 
and/or  Damages  incurred and settlements agreed to prior to the Insurer  giving its consent shall not be covered hereunder.  
B. Defense of Claims  
1. The Insurer  shall have the right and the duty to defend any Claim s which are covered by this Policy . The Insurer  
shall have the right to select defense counsel . The Insurer  has no obligation to provide Costs of Defense  for any 
Claim  not covered by this Policy . 
2. The Insurer  has no obligation to pay any amounts incurred by any Insured  in any way involving the interpretation or 
applicability of the terms and conditions of this Policy . 
C. Cooperation  
Each Insured  shall cooperate with the Insurer  in the defense and settlement of any Claim , and in enforcing any right of 
contribution or indemnity against any person or organization that may be liable to the Insured , at no cost to the Insurer . 
Upon the request of the Insurer , the Insured  shall submit to examination and interrogation, under oath if required by a 
representative of the Insurer , and shall attend hearings, depositions and trials, assist in effecting settlement, securing and 
giving evidence, obtaining the attendance of witnesses, as well as giving written statements to the Insurer’s  representatives, 
and meeting with such representatives for purposes of investigation or defense, all without charge to the Insurer . 
D. Settlements  
The Insurer  shall not settle any Claim  without the Named Insured's consent. If, however, the Named Insured  shall refuse 
to consent to any settlement recommended by the Insurer , which is acceptable to the claimant, and shall elect to contest 
the Claim , or continue any civil, criminal, administrative, or arbitration proceedings in connection with such Claim , then the 
Insurer's  liability for the Claim  shall be the amount for which the Claim  could have been settled, including Costs of Defense  
incurred up to the date of such refusal, and eighty  percent  (80%) of such Loss  excess of the amount for which the Claim  
could have been settled. It is a condition of this insurance that the remaining  twenty percent  (20%) of such Loss  shall be 
borne by the Insureds  at their own risk. Such amounts are subject to the provisions of sect ion V. of the Common Policy 
Terms and Conditions Section of this Policy .  
E. Allocation  
If a Claim made against an Insured  pursuant to any Coverage Sections contains both covered and uncovered matters, 
then the Named Insured  and the Insurer  will allocate any amount incurred with respect to such Claim  as follows:  
1. one hundred percent ( 100%) of Costs of Defense incurred will constitute covered  Loss ; and  
2. Damages  will be allocated on the basis of the relative legal and financial exposures of the parties as  to covered and 
uncovered matters pursuant to the applicable Coverage Sections.  
If a Claim made against an Insured  pursuant to any Coverage Sections contains both covered and uncovered parties, 
then the Named Insured  and the Insurer  will allocate any amounts incurred on behalf of any uncovered parties with respect 
to such Claim  on the basis of the relative legal and financial exposures of the parties of such covered and uncovered parties 
pursuant to the applicable Coverage Sections . 
The Insurer shall not be liable under this Policy  for the portion of such amount allocated to non-covered Loss . In the event 
that the parties cannot reach a mutually agreeable allocation, the Insurer  will determine the appropriate allocation at its 
discretion.  
  
CAROLINA CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY  
 
CT 22330-rev 0417 Common Policy Terms and Conditions Section  Page 6 of 8 
The descriptions in the headings of this Policy  are solely for convenience, and form no part of the terms and conditions of 
coverage.  VII. Notice of Claim s  
A. Notice of Claim  
As a condition precedent to their rights under this Policy , an Insured  shall give the Insurer  written notice of any Claim  first 
made against the Insureds  during the Policy Period , as soon as practicable, but in no event later than sixty (60) days after 
such Claim  is first made.  
B. Notice  of Circumstance  
If during the Policy Period  or any Extended Reporting P eriod or Run-off Period that may apply , the Insureds  become 
aware of any fact, circumstance or situation which may  reasonably be expected to give rise to a Claim  being made against 
any Insured  and the Insured  gives written notice to the Insurer , as soon as practicable (but prior to the expiration of or 
cancellation of the Policy ), of: 
1. the specific  fact, circumstance or situation, with full details as to dates, persons, and entities involved; and  
2. the injury or damages which may result therefrom; and  
3. the circumstances by which the Insured  first became aware thereof;  
then any Claim  subsequently made ar ising out of such fact, circumstance or situation shall be deemed to have been made 
when notice was first given to the Insurer . 
C. Related Wrongful Acts 
All Claims based upon or arising out of the same Wrongful Act  or any Related Wrongful Acts , or one or m ore in a series 
of any similar, repeated or continuous Wrongful Acts  or Related Wrongful Acts , shall be considered a single Claim . Each 
Claim  shall be deemed to be first made at the earliest of the following times:  
1. when the earliest Claim  arising out of such Wrongful Act or Related Wrongful Act s is first made, or  
2. when notice pursuant to section VII. B. above of a fact, circumstance or situation giving rise to such Claim  is 
given.  
D. Information and Cooperation  
In addition to furnishing the notice as provided in sections VII. A. and VII. B. above, the Insureds  shall give the Insurer  
such information and cooperation as it may reasonably require and shall, as soon as practicable, furnish the Insurer  with 
copies of reports, investigations, pleadings and other papers in connection therewith.  
VIII. General Conditions  
A. Cancellation or Non -Renewal  of Policy  
1. Cancellation  
a. The Named  Insured  may cancel this Policy  at any time by sending written notice to the Insurer . 
b. The Insurer  may not cancel this Policy  except for non-payment of any premium when due.  
c. The Insurer  shall provide at least twenty (20 ) days written notice to the Named Insured  prior to any 
cancellation for non- payment of any premium and such cancellation shall not be effective less than twenty (20) 
days after such notice is mailed.  
d. If this Policy  is cancelled by the Named Insured , the Insurer  shall retain the customary short rate proportion 
of the premium herein. Payment or tender of any unearned premium by the Insurer  shall not be a condition 
precedent to the effectiveness of cancellation, but such payment shall be made as soon as practicable.  
2. Nonrenewal  
If the Insurer  decides not to renew this Policy , the Insurer  shall provide written notice to the Named Insu red at 
least sixty ( 60) days prior to the end of the Policy Period . The notice shall include the reason for such non-renewal.  
3. Notice  
The Insurer shall send all notices required under this Section VIII.A. by first -class mail to the Named Insured  at the 
address last known to the Insurer . Proof of mailing of such notice by the United States Postal Service certificate of 
mailing shall be sufficient proof of notice.  
B. Application  
The Application is the basis of this Policy  and is incorporated in and constitutes a part of this Policy . Any material 
submitted with the Application(s) shall be maintained on file with the Insurer  and shall be deemed to be attached hereto 
as if physically attached. It is agreed by the Insureds  that the statements in the Application are their representations, 
that they are material and that this Policy  is issued in reliance upon the truth of such representations. With respect to 
such statements and representations, no knowledge or information posses sed by any Insureds  shall be imputed to any 
other Insureds . 
If any person or persons knew as of the Policy  inception date that such declarations and statements contained in the 
Application(s) were untrue, inaccurate or incomplete, then this Policy  shall not apply  to that person or persons.  
CAROLINA CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY  
 
CT 22330-rev 0417 Common Policy Terms and Conditions Section  Page 7 of 8 
The descriptions in the headings of this Policy  are solely for convenience, and form no part of the terms and conditions of 
coverage.  However, if the signer of the Application  knew as of the Policy  inception date that such representations and statements 
contained in the Application(s)  were untrue, inaccurate or incomplete, then this Policy  shall not apply  to that person or 
persons and the Insured Entity . 
C. Action Against the Insurer  
No action shall lie against the Insurer  unless, as a condition precedent thereto, there shall have been full compliance 
with all of the terms of this Policy , and the amou nt of the Insureds'  obligation to pay shall have been finally determined 
either by judgment against the Insureds  after actual trial or by written agreement of the Insureds , the claimant and the 
Insurer . 
Any person or organization or the legal representativ e thereof who has secured such judgment or written agreement shall 
thereafter be entitled to recover under this Policy  to the extent of the insurance afforded by this Policy . No person or 
organization shall have any right under this Policy  to join the Insurer as party to any action against the Insureds  to 
determine the Insureds'  liability, nor shall the Insurer  be impleaded by the Insureds  or their legal representatives.  
D. Change in Control of the Named Insured  
1. If during this Policy Period the Named Insured : 
a. ceases to continue as an ongoing entity ; or  
b. sells all or substantially all of its assets, or consolidates, or merges with or into any other person, group, entity 
or organization; who then controls the right to elect or appoint more than 50 percent of the Board of Directors 
or other governing body  of the Named Insured ; 
(either of the above events herein referred to as “Transaction ”) 
then, this Policy  shall continue in full force and effect as to any Wrongful Acts  fully occurring prior to the Transaction, 
but there shall be no coverage afforded by any provision of this Policy  for any actual or alleged Wrongful Acts  
occurring after the Transaction.  
2. This Policy  may not be cancelled following a Transaction and the entire premium for this  Polic y shall be deemed 
fully earned as of the effective date of the Transaction.   
3. The Named Insured  shall give the Insurer  written notice of the Transaction as soon as practicable but not later than 
sixty ( 60) days after the Transaction and prior to the expiration of the Policy Period. In the event of a Transaction, 
the Named Insured  shall have the right to purchase the Run -Off Period  described in  section II. C. of this  Common 
Policy Terms and Conditions Section.  
E. Subro gation  
In the ev ent of any payment under this Policy , the Insurer  shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all the 
Insureds'  rights of recovery thereof, and the Insureds  shall execute all papers required and shall do everything that may 
be necessary to secure such rights including the execution of such documents necessary to enable the Insurer  to effectively 
bring suit in the name of the Insureds . In no event, however, shall the Insurer  exercise its rights of subrogation against an 
Insured  under this Policy  unless such Insured  has been convicted of a criminal act, or been judicially determined to have 
committed a deliberate fraudulent act, or obtained any profit or advantage to which such Insured  was not legally entitled.  
F. Assignment  
This Policy  and any and al l rights hereunder are not assignable without the written consent of the Insurer . 
G. Entire  Agreement  
By acceptance of this Policy , the Insureds  and the Insurer  agree that this Policy  and any written endorsements attached 
hereto constitute the entire agreement between the parties.  
H. Representation  by Named Insured  
It is agreed that the Named Insured  shall act on behalf of its Subsidiaries  and all Insureds with respect to the giving and 
receiving of notices, the payment of premiums and the receiving of any return premiums that may become due under this 
Policy , the receipt and acceptance of any endorsements issued to form a part of this Policy  and the exercis ing or declining 
to exercise any right to an Extended Reporting Period or Run -off Period.  
I. Coverage Territory  
This Policy  applies to any Wrongful Act  taking place anywhere in the world.  In the event that the Insured Entity  operates 
outside the United States, then the term Insured Person  also means those titles, positions or capacities in such foreign 
Insured Entity  which is equivalent to the position of Insured Person  in an entity incorporated and/or formed within the 
Unite d States.  
  
CAROLINA CASUALTY INSURANCE COMPANY  
 
CT 22330-rev 0417 Common Policy Terms and Conditions Section  Page 8 of 8 
The descriptions in the headings of this Policy  are solely for convenience, and form no part of the terms and conditions of 
coverage.  J. Bankruptcy  
Bankruptcy or insolvency of the Insureds  or of their estates shall not relieve the Insurer  of any of its obligations hereunder. 
In the event a liquidation or reorganization proceeding is commenced by or against the Insured Entity  pursuant to the 
United States Bankruptcy Code, including amendments thereto, or any  similar state or local law . The Insured  Entity  and 
the Insured Persons hereby : (1) agree to  waive and release any automatic stay or injunction which may apply in such 
proce eding to this Policy  or its proceeds under such Bankruptcy Code or law ; and (2) agree not to oppose or object to any 
efforts by the Insurer , the Insured Entity  or any Insured Persons  to obtain relief from any such stay or injunction.  
K. Trade and Economic Sanctions  
This Policy  does not provide coverage for Insureds , transactions or that part of Damages  or Costs of Defense that is 
uninsurable under the laws or regulations of the United States concerning trade or economic sanctions.  
  
