Technology
Policy document
United States 
If a cyber event occurs
In the event that the risk or vulnerability CFC alerts you 
about results in a notifiable incident under the Policy, 
you should refer to the Policy Conditions or speak 
with your broker for information about notification 
requirements to CFC. 
About CFC Response
CFC Response is a trading name of the below listed 
entities, all of which are affiliates of CFC:
1CFC Security Inc, DE file number 7451204, principal 
place of business at 300 E. Highland Mall Blvd, Suite 
300, Austin, Texas 78752 United States;
2CFC Security Limited, registered company number 
13497455 with registered address at 85 Gracechurch 
Street, London, EC3V 0AA; and
3CFC Security Pty Ltd, principal place of business at 130 
Bundall Road, Unit 22, Queensland, 4217, Australia, 
ACN: 096 518 820.
You may receive services from one or more of the above 
companies depending upon your geographical location.
By using CFC Response services, you agree to the 
relevant entity’s terms and conditions, which can be 
found here . These terms outline the scope of services 
provided and any applicable limitations on liability. CFC 
is not responsible for services provided by CFC Response. 
Liability for these services is governed by the terms and 
conditions of the relevant CFC Response entity. If you have 
any questions about these terms, please contact CFC 
Response for clarification at enquiries@cfcresponse.com. 
Our liability for proactive support 
services
CFC’s Proactive services are designed to support cyber 
risk visibility and deliver timely alerts.  These services do 
not replace the need for a comprehensive cybersecurity 
programme. Whilst CFC will endeavour to identify risks 
and vulnerabilities that may lead to cyber incidents 
throughout the duration of the policy to you, neither 
CFC nor CFC Response offers any guarantee that all such 
risks and vulnerabilities will be prevented, identified or 
resolved by CFC or CFC Response. You remain solely 
responsible for securing your systems and data.Proactive  services
As an added benefit to this policy proactive 
cyber attack prevention services are provided 
to you, working to identify vulnerabilities and 
risks targeting insureds and try to prevent them 
from turning into cyber incidents. For more 
information on how these services work, contact 
us or read this article. 
CFC (the Coverholder identified on your Policy 
Certificate) strives to provide proactive support and 
advice on cyber risks and vulnerabilities that you may 
be exposed to throughout the duration of the policy. In 
certain circumstances such support may be provided by 
CFC Response. 
Accessing proactive services
It is recommended that you download and activate the 
CFC Response app, including enabling notifications, 
in order to ensure full access to, and benefit from, 
CFC’s Proactive services. While CFC will endeavour to 
provide these proactive services to you without the app, 
downloading the app will allow CFC to provide a deeper 
level of threat analysis.  Your policy number provides you 
with free access to the app. 
Proactive services tailored for you
CFC supports you by trying to identify risks and 
vulnerabilities that may lead to cyber incidents 
throughout the duration of the policy. If CFC 
becomes aware of a cyber risk or vulnerability 
to which you may be exposed, CFC will strive to 
provide proactive risk management services to 
you. These services can include:
A sending threat alerts through the Response 
mobile application (or via another means of 
communication if you have not downloaded 
the Response mobile application);
B  providing initial advice to you about the risk or 
vulnerability, including threat intelligence; and
C providing initial remote support and assistance 
to you to remedy the risk or vulnerability.
The Services at b. and c. above will be provided to 
you by CFC Response.No impact on policy limits
Being alerted of a risk or vulnerability by CFC will not 
constitute a claim under your policy. CFC interactions 
with you to provide support and advice regarding 
cyber risks and vulnerabilities they have identified will 
not impact any coverage that you may be entitled to. 
1
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0PREAMBLE
 
As an added benefit to this Policy, proactive cyber attack prevention services are provided to you. 
These services are designed to help identify potential vulnerabilities and threats targeting you 
and aim to assist in reducing the likelihood of cyber incidents.
IMPORTANT: COVERAGE TRIGGERS. It is important for you to review this Policy in its entirety 
carefully, including CONDITION 1, as the trigger for coverage, including when you must notify us 
of a claim, under each Section and Insuring Clause may differ.
Where cyber events, system failures or operator errors are not specifically excluded from a 
Section or Insuring Clause of this Policy, then a claim arising out of a cyber event, system failure 
or operator error which is otherwise covered under that Section or Insuring Clause will be 
payable, subject to all other terms, conditions and exclusions of this Policy.
This Policy is a contract of insurance between you and us. Your Policy contains all the details of 
the cover that we provide. This Policy consists of and must be read together with the 
Declarations page and any Endorsements. This Policy is not complete unless it is signed and a 
Declarations page is attached.
The sections of this Policy are identified by the blue lines across the page with white upper case 
print, these are for information purposes only and do not form part of the cover given by this 
Policy. Terms in bold upper case print are references to specific Insuring Clauses, Sections or 
Conditions. Other terms in bold lower case print are defined terms and have a special meaning 
as set forth in the Definitions section and elsewhere. Words stated in the singular will include the 
plural and vice versa.
In consideration of the premium and in reliance upon the information that you have provided to 
us prior to the commencement of this insurance, we agree to provide the cover as set out below:
 
INSURING CLAUSES
 
INSURING CLAUSE 1: PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY
SECTION A: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES LIABILITY
We agree to pay on your behalf all sums which you become legally obliged to pay (including 
liability for claimants' costs and expenses) as a result of any claim first made against you during 
the period of the policy or any applicable optional extended reporting period arising out of your 
technology services for any:
a. negligent act, error, omission, misstatement or misrepresentation;
2
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0b. breach of any contractual term implied by law concerning necessary quality, safety or 
fitness, or your duty to use reasonable care and skill;
c. failure of a product to perform or function as intended;
d.bodily injury or property damage and any consequential financial loss related to the 
bodily injury or property damage; or
e. other act, error or omission giving rise to civil liability but not any breach of contract other 
than as specified above.
We will also pay costs and expenses on your behalf.
SECTION B: BREACH OF CONTRACT
We agree to pay on your behalf all sums which you become legally obliged to pay (including 
liability for claimants' costs and expenses) as a result of any claim first made against you during 
the period of the policy or any applicable optional extended reporting period as a direct result of 
any unintentional breach of a contract with a client for the provision of your technology services.
We will also pay costs and expenses on your behalf.
SECTION C: SUB-CONTRACTOR VICARIOUS LIABILITY
We agree to pay on your behalf all sums which you become legally obliged to pay (including 
liability for claimants' costs and expenses) as a result of any claim first made against you during 
the period of the policy or any applicable optional extended reporting period as a direct result of 
any act, error or omission committed by any sub-contractor engaged by you for the provision of 
your technology services.
We will also pay costs and expenses on your behalf.
SECTION D: INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS INFRINGEMENT AND MEDIA LIABILITY
We agree to pay on your behalf all sums which you become legally obliged to pay (including 
liability for claimants' costs and expenses) as a result of any claim first made against you during 
the period of the policy or any applicable optional extended reporting period arising out of the 
provision of your technology services for any:
a. infringement of any intellectual property rights, breach of any intellectual property rights 
license acquired by you where you acted in good faith and did not knowingly intend to 
breach those rights or failure to attribute authorship or provide credit;
b. act of passing-off, piracy or plagiarism or any misappropriation of content, concepts, 
format rights or ideas or breach of a contractual warranty relating to intellectual property 
rights;
c. misappropriation of a trade secret;
d. invasion, infringement or interference with rights of privacy or publicity, including false 
light, public disclosure of private facts, intrusion, breach of confidence and commercial 
appropriation of name or likeness;
3
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0e. breach of agreement, breach of confidentiality or promissory estoppel, in connection with 
the failure to maintain the confidentiality of a source or materials furnished by a source or 
the failure to portray a source or a subject in a certain light; or
f. defamation, including but not limited to libel, slander, trade libel, product disparagement, 
injurious falsehood, emotional distress or outrage based on harm to the character or 
reputation of any person or entity.
We will also pay costs and expenses on your behalf.
SECTION E: REGULATORY COSTS AND FINES
We agree to pay on your behalf costs and expenses and any fines or penalties as a result of any 
regulatory investigation first initiated against you during the period of the policy or any 
applicable optional extended reporting period arising directly out of the provision of your 
technology services.
However, we will not pay costs and expenses, fines or penalties in respect of any regulatory 
investigation affecting the wider environment in which you conduct your technology services, as 
opposed to any regulatory investigation solely affecting you.
SECTION F: DISHONESTY OF EMPLOYEES
We agree to pay on your behalf all sums which you become legally obliged to pay (including 
liability for claimants' costs and expenses) as a result of any claim first made against you during 
the period of the policy or any applicable optional extended reporting period arising out of any 
dishonesty by any employee in the provision of your technology services.
We will also pay costs and expenses on your behalf.
SECTION G: PAYMENT OF WITHHELD FEES
We agree to pay your withheld fees in the event that a client of yours brings or threatens to bring 
a claim against you that would be covered under INSURING CLAUSE 1 (SECTIONS A, B, C and F 
only) for an amount greater than your withheld fees if you attempt to recover the withheld fees 
from them. Prior to payment of your withheld fees you must obtain written confirmation from 
the client that they will not bring a claim against you if you agree not to pursue them for your 
withheld fees and provide it to us.
INSURING CLAUSE 2: NETWORK SECURITY & PRIVACY LIABILITY
SECTION A: NETWORK SECURITY LIABILITY
We agree to pay on your behalf all sums which you become legally obliged to pay (including the 
establishment of any consumer redress fund and associated expenses) as a result of any claim 
arising out of a cyber event first discovered by you during the period of the policy that results in:
a. the transmission of malware to a third party's computer system;
b.your computer systems being used to carry out a denial of service attack;
4
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0c.your failure to prevent unauthorized access to information stored or applications hosted 
on your computer systems or a third party's computer systems; or
d. identity theft, experienced by your employees, senior executive officers or any third party.
We will also pay costs and expenses on your behalf.
SECTION B: PRIVACY LIABILITY
We agree to pay on your behalf all sums which you become legally obliged to pay (including the 
establishment of any consumer redress fund and associated expenses) as a result of any claim 
arising out of a cyber event first discovered by you during the period of the policy that results in:
a. an actual or suspected disclosure of or unauthorized access to any Personally Identifiable 
Information (PII), including payment card information or Protected Health Information 
(PHI);
b.your failure to adequately warn affected individuals of a privacy breach, including the 
failure to provide a data breach notification in a timely manner;
c. a breach of any rights of confidentiality as a direct result of your failure to maintain the 
confidentiality of any data pertaining to an employee or senior executive officer;
d. a breach of any rights of confidentiality, including a breach of any provisions of a non-
disclosure agreement or breach of a contractual warranty relating to the confidentiality of 
commercial information, PII, or PHI;
e. a breach of any part of your privacy policy; or
f. actual or suspected disclosure of or unauthorized access to your data or data for which 
you are responsible.
We will also pay costs and expenses on your behalf.
SECTION C: MANAGEMENT LIABILITY
We agree to pay on behalf of any board member, C-level executive, in-house lawyer and risk 
manager of the company (including your Chief Information Security Officer, Chief Information 
Officer, Chief Technology Officer or their functional equivalents), all sums they become legally 
obliged to pay as a result of any claim made against them arising directly out of a cyber event 
first discovered by you during the period of the policy.
We will also pay costs and expenses on their behalf.
However, we will not make any payment under this Section for which the board member, C-level 
executive, in-house lawyer or risk manager is entitled to indemnity under any other insurance, 
except for any additional sum which is payable over and above the other insurance.
SECTION D: REGULATORY FINES, PENALTIES AND INVESTIGATION COSTS
We agree to pay on your behalf any fines and penalties resulting from a regulatory investigation 
arising as a direct result of a cyber event first discovered by you during the period of the policy.
5
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0We will also pay costs and expenses on your behalf.
SECTION E: PCI FINES, PENALTIES AND ASSESSMENTS
We agree to pay on your behalf any fines, penalties and card brand assessments including fraud 
recoveries, operational reimbursements, non-cooperation costs and case management fees, 
which you become legally obliged to pay to your acquiring bank or payment processor as a 
direct result of a payment card breach first discovered by you during the period of the policy.
We will also pay costs and expenses on your behalf.
SECTION F: CONTINGENT BODILY INJURY
We agree to pay on your behalf all sums which you become legally obliged to pay (including 
liability for claimant's costs and expenses) as a result of any claim arising out of bodily injury 
caused as a direct result of a cyber event affecting your computer systems first discovered by you 
during the period of the policy.
We will also pay costs and expenses on your behalf.
However, we will not make any payment under this Section for which you are entitled to 
indemnity under any other insurance, except for any additional sum which is payable over and 
above the other insurance.
INSURING CLAUSE 3: CYBER INCIDENT RESPONSE
SECTION A: INCIDENT RESPONSE COSTS
We agree to pay on your behalf any reasonable sums necessarily incurred by you, or on your 
behalf, as a direct result of a cyber event first discovered by you during the period of the policy to:
a. gain access to our 24/7 cyber incident response line;
b. engage with our claims manager who will coordinate the initial response;
c. obtain initial advice and consultancy from our claims manager, including threat 
intelligence in relation to the cyber event; and
d. obtain initial remote support and assistance from our claims manager to respond to the 
cyber event.
SECTION B: LEGAL AND REGULATORY COSTS
We agree to pay on your behalf any reasonable sums necessarily incurred by you, or on your 
behalf, as a direct result of a cyber event first discovered by you during the period of the policy to:
a. obtain legal advice to determine the correct course of action;
b. draft privacy breach notification letters, substitute notices, website notices or e-mail 
notification templates;
c. notify any appropriate governmental, regulatory, law enforcement, professional or 
statutory body;
d. respond to any regulatory investigation; and
6
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0e. defend any regulatory action.
SECTION C: IT SECURITY AND FORENSIC COSTS
We agree to pay on your behalf any reasonable sums necessarily incurred by you, or on your 
behalf, as a direct result of a cyber event first discovered by you during the period of the policy to:
a. engage with an external IT security consultant to identify the source and scope of the 
cyber event;
b. obtain initial advice to remediate the impact of the cyber event;
c. conduct a forensic investigation of your computer systems where reasonable and 
necessary or as required by law or a regulatory body (including a requirement for a PCI 
Forensic Investigator);
d. contain and remove any malware discovered on your computer systems; and
e. engage with an IT security consultant to provide expert witness testimony at any trial or 
hearing arising from the cyber event.
SECTION D: CRISIS COMMUNICATION COSTS
We agree to pay on your behalf any reasonable sums necessarily incurred by you, or on your 
behalf, as a direct result of a cyber event first discovered by you during the period of the policy to:
a. engage with a crisis communications consultant to obtain specific advice in direct 
relation to the cyber event;
b. coordinate media relations in response to the cyber event;
c. receive training for relevant spokespeople with respect to media communications in 
direct relation to the cyber event; and
d. formulate a crisis communications plan in order to reduce damage to your brand and 
reputation as a direct result of the cyber event.
SECTION E: PRIVACY BREACH MANAGEMENT COSTS
We agree to pay on your behalf any reasonable sums necessarily incurred by you, or on your 
behalf, as a direct result of a cyber event first discovered during the period of the policy to:
a. print and post appropriate notices for any individual affected by the actual or suspected 
cyber event or to send e-mail notices or issue substitute notices, including any privacy 
breach notification that you are not legally obliged to make;
b. provide credit monitoring services, identity monitoring services, identity restoration 
services or identity theft insurance to affected individuals;
c. set up a call center to manage inbound and outbound calls in direct relation to the cyber 
event; and
d. provide translation services to manage communications with affected individuals.
7
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0SECTION F: THIRD PARTY PRIVACY BREACH MANAGEMENT COSTS
We agree to pay on behalf of any third party any reasonable sums necessarily incurred as a direct 
result of a cyber event first discovered by you during the period of the policy to:
a. print and post appropriate notices for any individual affected by the actual or suspected 
cyber event or to send e-mail notices or issue substitute notices;
b. provide credit monitoring services, identity monitoring services, identity restoration 
services or identity theft insurance to affected individuals;
c. set up a call center to manage inbound and outbound calls in direct relation to the cyber 
event; and
d. provide translation services to manage communications with affected individuals;
provided that you are contractually required to indemnify the third party against this cyber event 
and they have a legal obligation to notify affected individuals.
SECTION G: POST BREACH REMEDIATION COSTS
We agree to pay on your behalf any reasonable sums necessarily incurred by you, or on your 
behalf, with our claims manager following a cyber event covered under INSURING CLAUSE 3 for 
the following services in order to mitigate the potential of a future cyber event:
a. complete an information security risk assessment;
b. conduct an information security gap analysis;
c. develop an information security document set; and
d. deliver an information security awareness training session.
INSURING CLAUSE 4: CYBER CRIME
SECTION A: FUNDS TRANSFER FRAUD
We agree to reimburse you for loss first discovered by you during the period of the policy as a 
direct result of any third party committing:
a. any unauthorized electronic transfer of company funds from a bank or other financial 
institution, including an asset management firm, pension or investment fund;
b. theft of the company's money or other financial assets from a bank by electronic means;
c. theft of money or other financial assets from your corporate credit cards by electronic 
means; or
d. any phishing, vishing or other social engineering attack against any employee or senior 
executive officer that results in the transfer of company funds to an unintended third 
party.
SECTION B: INVOICE MANIPULATION
We agree to reimburse you for loss first discovered by you during the period of the policy, as a 
direct result of theft committed by a third party of a client's money or other financial assets, that 
the client intended to send to you for the provision of goods and services, but which you did not 
8
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0receive as a result of fraudulent electronic communications designed to impersonate a senior 
executive officer or employee, including the creation of fraudulent invoices or change of banking 
details.
SECTION C: NEW VENDOR FRAUD
We agree to reimburse you for loss first discovered by you during the period of the policy as a 
direct result of a fraudulent third party posing as a legitimate vendor of goods or services with 
whom you are transacting for the first time, resulting in you paying for goods or services that you 
did not receive.
SECTION D: PHYSICAL GOODS FRAUD
We agree to reimburse you for loss first discovered by you during the period of the policy as a 
direct result of a third party committing any phishing, vishing or other social engineering attack 
against an employee or senior executive officer that results in you sending the company's 
tangible property or goods to an unintended third party.
However, we will not make any payment under this Section for loss as a result of a legitimate 
customer not paying or refusing to pay for tangible property or goods that you have sent to 
them.
SECTION E: THEFT OF PERSONAL FUNDS
We agree to reimburse any senior executive officer for personal financial loss first discovered by 
them during the period of the policy as a direct result of any third party compromising the 
company's network security, which results in:
a. theft of money or other financial assets from a personal bank account of the senior 
executive officer; or
b. identity theft of the senior executive officer as a result of a privacy breach suffered by you.
SECTION F: CORPORATE IDENTITY THEFT
We agree to reimburse you for loss first discovered by you during the period of the policy as a 
direct result of the fraudulent use or misuse of your electronic identity, including the:
a. establishment of credit or loans in your name;
b. unauthorized electronic signing of any contract or agreement in your name;
c. costs associated with the removal of websites designed to impersonate you; or
d. the reliance by a third party on a fraudulent version of your digital identity to execute 
transactions of your funds or other financial assets.
SECTION G: THEFT OF FUNDS HELD IN ESCROW
We agree to reimburse you for loss (including compensation that the company is legally obliged 
to pay) first discovered by you during the period of the policy as a direct result of you having to 
reimburse a client for theft of the client's money or other financial assets from a bank account 
9
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0held in your name, provided that the theft was committed by a third party by electronic means, 
including any phishing, vishing or other social engineering attack against you.
SECTION H: THEFT OF CLIENT FUNDS
We agree to reimburse you for loss first discovered by you during the period of the policy as a 
direct result of you having to reimburse a client for theft of the client's money or other financial 
assets from a client's bank account that you had access to, provided that the theft was as a result 
of a social engineering attack committed against you by a third party.
SECTION I: CUSTOMER PAYMENT FRAUD
We agree to reimburse you in the event of fraudulent electronic communications or websites 
designed to impersonate you or any of your products, first discovered by you during the period of 
the policy, for loss directly attributable to:
a. reimbursing your customers for their financial loss arising directly from the fraudulent 
communications, including fraudulent invoices manipulated to impersonate you, where 
goods or services have not been provided to the customers by you or on your behalf; and
b. the cost of creating and issuing a specific press release or establishing a specific website 
to advise your customers and prospective customers of the fraudulent communications.
SECTION J: TELEPHONE HACKING
We agree to reimburse you for loss associated with the cost of unauthorized calls or 
unauthorized use of your bandwidth first discovered by you during the period of the policy as a 
direct result of your telephone system being hacked by a third party.
SECTION K: UNAUTHORIZED USE OF COMPUTER RESOURCES
We agree to reimburse you for loss first discovered by you during the period of the policy as a 
direct result of cryptojacking or botnetting.
INSURING CLAUSE 5: CYBER EXTORTION
We agree to pay on behalf of the company any ransom in response to an extortion demand 
made against you and first discovered by you during the period of the policy as a direct result of 
any actual or threat of:
a. introduction of malware, including ransomware, into your computer systems;
b. prevention of access to your computer systems or any third party systems hosting your 
applications or data;
c. disclosure of your confidential information or confidential information entrusted to you; or
d. damage to your brand or reputation by posting false or misleading information about you 
on social media sites.
We will also pay on behalf of the company the reasonable and necessary costs incurred to 
respond to the extortion demand (including costs incurred to procure cryptocurrency for the 
10
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0purposes of paying the ransom or in negotiating with the individual or organization making the 
extortion demand against you).
INSURING CLAUSE 6: SYSTEM DAMAGE AND BUSINESS INTERRUPTION
SECTION A: SYSTEM DAMAGE AND RECTIFICATION COSTS
We agree to reimburse you for the additional cost of employing:
a. contract staff or overtime costs for employees to rebuild your data, including the cost of 
data re-entry or data re-creation;
b. specialist consultants, including IT forensic consultants, to recover your data or 
applications; and
c. specialist consultants or overtime costs for employees working within your IT department 
to reconstitute your computer systems to the position they were in immediately prior to 
the cyber event;
as a direct result of a cyber event first discovered by you during the period of the policy.
SECTION B: HARDWARE REPLACEMENT COSTS
We agree to pay on your behalf any reasonable sums necessarily incurred to replace any 
computer hardware or tangible equipment forming part of your computer systems that have 
been rendered unusable as a direct result of a cyber event first discovered by you during the 
period of the policy, provided that replacing the computer hardware or tangible equipment is a 
more cost effective solution than installing new firmware or software onto your existing 
hardware.
For the purposes of this Section, we will also pay the reasonable costs necessarily incurred to 
purchase and install temporary computer hardware or tangible equipment that are necessary in 
the interim for the sole purpose of facilitating the recovery of your data or systems during the 
remediation phase of the cyber event.
SECTION C: INCOME LOSS AND EXTRA EXPENSE
We agree to reimburse you for your income loss and extra expense sustained during the 
indemnity period as a direct result of an interruption to your business activities caused by your 
computer systems downtime arising directly out of a cyber event, system failure or operator 
error, which is first discovered by you during the period of the policy, provided that your 
computer systems downtime lasts longer than the time franchise.
SECTION D: EMERGENCY AND ADDITIONAL OPERATIONAL CONTINUITY COSTS
We agree to reimburse you for any reasonable sums necessarily incurred during the indemnity 
period that are in addition to your normal operating expenses and the extra expense recoverable 
under INSURING CLAUSE 6 (SECTION C only):
11
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0a. to source your products or services from alternative sources in order to meet contractual 
obligations to supply your customers;
b. to employ contract staff or overtime costs for employees in order to continue your 
business activities;
c. to employ specialist consultants, including IT forensic consultants to diagnose the source 
of the computer systems downtime; and
d. for employees working overtime within your IT department to diagnose and fix the source 
of the computer systems downtime;
to mitigate an interruption to your business activities caused by your computer systems 
downtime arising directly out of a cyber event, system failure or operator error which is first 
discovered by you during the period of the policy, provided that your computer systems 
downtime lasts longer than the time franchise.
For the avoidance of doubt, these additional costs need not be less than your expected income 
loss had these measures not been taken.
SECTION E: VOLUNTARY AND REGULATORY SHUTDOWN
We agree to reimburse you for your income loss and extra expense sustained during the 
indemnity period as a result of an interruption to your business activities where:
a. it is reasonable and necessary to deliberately take your computer systems offline in order 
to manage a cyber event and to mitigate a wider loss, provided that the cyber event was 
first discovered by you during the period of the policy; or
b. a governmental entity or regulatory body with jurisdiction over you expressly requires you 
to take your computer systems offline during the period of the policy in response to a 
cyber event;
provided that the length of time that your computer systems are offline exceeds the time 
franchise.
SECTION F: DEPENDENT BUSINESS INTERRUPTION
We agree to reimburse you for your income loss and extra expense sustained during the 
indemnity period as a direct result of an interruption to your business activities arising directly 
out of any sudden, unexpected and continuous outage of computer systems used directly by a 
supply chain partner which is first discovered by you during the period of the policy, provided 
that the computer systems downtime lasts longer than the time franchise and arises directly out 
of a cyber event, system failure or operator error.
SECTION G: CONSEQUENTIAL REPUTATIONAL HARM
We agree to reimburse you for your income loss sustained during the reputational harm period 
as a direct result of the loss of current or future customers, caused by damage to your reputation 
as a result of a cyber event first discovered by you during the period of the policy.
12
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0SECTION H: LOST OR MISSED BIDS
We agree to reimburse you for your income loss sustained during the reputational harm period 
as a result of your failure to make or win a bid or request for proposal (RFP) for a contract arising 
directly from a cyber event first discovered by you during the period of the policy.
SECTION I: CLAIM PREPARATION COSTS
We agree to pay on your behalf any reasonable sums necessarily incurred to determine the 
amount of your income loss sustained following an interruption to your business activities 
covered under INSURING CLAUSE 6. We will only pay these costs where they are incurred with 
an expert appointed by the claims manager.
INSURING CLAUSE 7: COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY
SECTION A: BODILY INJURY AND PROPERTY DAMAGE LIABILITY
We agree to pay on your behalf all sums which you become legally obliged to pay (including 
liability for claimants' costs and expenses) as a result of any claim arising out of bodily injury or 
property damage first occurring during the period of the policy, except when it is caused directly 
by your technology services.
We will also pay costs and expenses on your behalf.
SECTION B: PERSONAL AND ADVERTISING INJURY
We agree to pay on your behalf all sums which you become legally obliged to pay (including 
liability for claimants' costs and expenses) as a result of any claim arising out of personal injury or 
advertising injury first occurring during the period of the policy, except when it is directly caused 
by your technology services.
We will also pay costs and expenses on your behalf.
SECTION C: PRODUCTS AND COMPLETED OPERATIONS LIABILITY
We agree to pay on your behalf all sums which you become legally obliged to pay (including 
liability for claimants' costs and expenses) as a result of any claim arising out of bodily injury or 
property damage first occurring during the period of the policy caused directly by any product.
We will also pay costs and expenses on your behalf.
SECTION D: POLLUTION LIABILITY
We agree to pay on your behalf all sums which you become legally obliged to pay (including 
liability for claimants' costs and expenses) as a result of any claim arising out of bodily injury or 
property damage caused directly by pollution first occurring during the period of the policy, on 
condition that the pollution was the direct result of a sudden, identifiable, unintended and 
unexpected incident.
We will also pay costs and expenses on your behalf.
13
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0SECTION E: TENANTS’ LEGAL LIABILITY
We agree to pay on your behalf all sums which you become legally obliged to pay (including 
liability for claimants' costs and expenses) as a result of any claim arising out of property damage 
to premises leased to, hired by, on loan to or held in trust by you or otherwise in your care, 
custody or control first occurring during the period of the policy.
We will also pay costs and expenses on your behalf.
SECTION F: MEDICAL EXPENSES
We agree to pay medical expenses for bodily injury to a third party caused by an accident first 
occurring during the period of the policy in the course of your business activities, provided that:
a. the third party, at the time of the accident, is not entitled to benefits under any workers' 
compensation or disability benefits law or similar law;
b. the medical expenses are incurred and notified to us within one year of the date of the 
accident; and
c. the third party submits to examination, at our expense, by physicians of our choice and as 
often as we reasonably require.
We will make these payments regardless of fault.
SECTION G: EMPLOYEE BENEFITS LIABILITY
We agree to pay on your behalf all sums which you become legally obliged to pay (including 
liability for claimants' costs and expenses) as a result of any claim first made against you during 
the period of the policy or any applicable optional extended reporting period arising out of any 
act, error or omission committed by you or on your behalf in the administration of your employee 
benefit program.
We will also pay costs and expenses on your behalf.
SECTION H: NON-OWNED AND HIRED AUTOMOBILE LIABILITY
We agree to pay on your behalf all sums which you become legally obliged to pay (including 
liability for claimants' costs and expenses) as a result of any claim arising out of bodily injury or 
property damage occurring during the period of the policy in the course of your business 
activities resulting from the use or operation by you of any automobile that is not owned in 
whole or in part by the company or licensed in the name of the company.
We will also pay costs and expenses on your behalf.
SECTION I: LIABILITY FOR DAMAGE TO HIRED OR LEASED AUTOMOBILES
We agree to pay on your behalf all sums which you become legally obliged to pay (including 
liability for claimants' costs and expenses) as a result of any claim arising out of property damage 
to an automobile leased to or hired by you from a third party first occurring during the period of 
the policy in the course of your business activities.
14
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0We will also pay costs and expenses on your behalf.
INSURING CLAUSE 8: LOSS MITIGATION
In respect of INSURING CLAUSE 1, we agree to reimburse you for any reasonable costs necessarily 
incurred by you with our prior written agreement (which will not be unreasonably withheld) in 
respect of measures taken by you to rectify any act, error or omission that resulted in a claim or 
may result in a claim for which you would be entitled to indemnity under this Policy had these 
measures not been taken, provided that:
a. these rectification measures are taken for the sole purpose of mitigating the claim or 
avoiding a claim; and
b. the costs in respect of these rectification measures taken by you are less than the 
expected value of the claim.
We will not make any payment under this Insuring Clause in respect of any costs that include 
any provision for:
a. salaries or other remuneration of employees;
b.your loss of profit;
c.your normal operating expenses; or
d. goodwill payments or other amounts that you are not contractually obliged to pay.
INSURING CLAUSE 9: CRIMINAL REWARD COVER
We agree to reimburse you for any reasonable sums necessarily incurred with our prior written 
agreement to pay any person or organization, other than:
a. any external or internal auditor of the company; or
b. any individual or organization who manages or supervises the individuals stated in a. 
above;
for information not otherwise available which directly results in the arrest and conviction of any 
person or organization who is committing or has committed any illegal act directly relating to a 
claim covered under INSURING CLAUSES 2, 3, 4, 5 or 6.
INSURING CLAUSE 10: REPUTATION AND BRAND PROTECTION
We agree to reimburse you for any reasonable sums necessarily incurred with our prior written 
agreement (which will not be unreasonably withheld) for the services of a public relations 
consultancy to avert or mitigate damage to your reputation or brand as a direct result of any 
media report that names you and publicizes an act or event that is the subject of a claim for 
which you are entitled to indemnity under this Policy.
INSURING CLAUSE 11: COURT ATTENDANCE COSTS
We agree to reimburse you for any reasonable sums necessarily incurred by you with our prior 
written agreement (which will not be unreasonably withheld) to attend court or any tribunal, 
15
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0arbitration, adjudication, mediation or other hearing in connection with any claim for which you 
are entitled to indemnity under this Policy.
 
HOW MUCH WE WILL PAY
 
The maximum amount payable by us in respect of each Section and each Insuring Clause will 
not exceed the limit of liability plus the incident response limit.
YOUR MAXIMUM LIMITS UNDER THIS POLICY
Where any claim is covered under multiple Sections, each Section will cover its part of the claim 
to the extent of the available limit of liability. In the event any Section covering the claim is 
exhausted, no other Section of this Policy covering the claim will provide additional cover, unless 
cover is also triggered under INSURING CLAUSE 3 in which case the incident response limit will 
be available in addition to the limit of liability.
Regardless of how many Sections cover any claim only one overall limit of liability, plus the 
incident response limit, will be available. The limit of liability that will be available is the highest 
limit of liability of the Sections covering the claim. The limits of liability available, other than the 
highest limit of liability, and the incident response limit, under the Sections covering the claim 
will always be a part of and not in addition to the highest limit of liability plus the incident 
response limit. For the purposes of this paragraph, INSURING CLAUSES 5, 8, 9, 10 and 11 will each 
be considered a Section.
Where more than one claim under this Policy arises from the same original cause or single 
source or event, all of those claims will be deemed to be one claim and only one limit of liability 
and one incident response limit will apply in respect of that claim.
YOUR LIABILITY COVERAGES
We may at any time pay to you in connection with any claim the amount of the limit of liability 
(after deduction of any amounts already paid). Upon that payment being made we will relinquish 
the conduct and control of the claim and be under no further liability in connection with that 
claim except for the payment of costs and expenses incurred prior to the date of such payment 
(unless the limit of liability is stated to be inclusive of costs and expenses).
If costs and expenses are stated in the Declarations page to be in addition to the limit of liability, 
or if the operation of local laws require costs and expenses to be paid in addition to the limit of 
liability, and if a damages payment in excess of the limit of liability has to be made to dispose of 
any claim, our liability for costs and expenses will be in the same proportion as the limit of liability 
bears to the total amount of the damages payment.
16
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0 
YOUR DEDUCTIBLE
 
We will only be liable for that part of each and every claim which exceeds the amount of the 
deductible. If any expenditure is incurred by us which falls within the amount of the deductible, 
then you will reimburse that amount to us upon our request.
Where more than one claim under this Policy arises from the same original cause or single 
source or event all of those claims will be deemed to be one claim and only one deductible will 
apply.
Where cover is provided under multiple Sections or multiple Insuring Clauses only one 
deductible will apply to that claim and this will be the highest deductible of the Sections under 
which cover is provided.
YOUR AGGREGATE DEDUCTIBLE
Notwithstanding the above, an aggregate deductible applies to INSURING CLAUSES 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 
and 9 and is the maximum amount you will be liable to pay for all claims under these Insuring 
Clauses. This means your payment of any applicable deductible in respect of claims under these 
Insuring Clauses will erode the aggregate deductible. Upon total erosion of the aggregate 
deductible you will have no further liability to make any payment under these Insuring Clauses.
For example, if you have an aggregate deductible of $5,000 and make a claim where costs 
exceed this amount, should you notify a subsequent claim under these Insuring Clauses, no 
deductible will apply to that claim and you will have no further liability to make any payment 
under these Insuring Clauses.
YOUR TIME FRANCHISE
In respect of INSURING CLAUSE 6 (SECTIONS C, D, E and F only), a single time franchise and 
indemnity period will apply to each claim. Where the same original cause or single source or 
event causes more than one period of computer systems downtime these will be considered one 
period of computer systems downtime whose total duration is equal to the cumulative duration 
of each individual period of computer systems downtime.
 
DEFINITIONS
 
1."Administration" means
a. advising employees, including their dependents and beneficiaries, in respect of your 
employee benefit program;
b. handling records in respect of your employee benefit program; and
17
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0c. effecting enrolment or termination of any employee's participation in a plan included 
in your employee benefit program.
2."Advertising injury" means
a. oral or written publication of defamatory content;
b. oral or written publication of content that violates a person's right of privacy; or
c. infringement of copyright, trade dress, slogan or a third party's advertising idea;
in your advertising or promotional material.
3."Aggregate deductible" means
the highest deductible of the Sections under INSURING CLAUSES 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 9.
4."Approved claims panel providers" means
the approved claims panel providers stated in the Declarations page.
5."Bodily injury" means
death, bodily injury, mental injury, illness or disease.
6."Botnetting" means
the unauthorized use of your computer systems by a third party for the purpose of launching 
a denial of service attack or hacking attack against another third party.
7."Claim" means
a. a written demand for compensation;
b. a written request for a retraction or a correction;
c. a cease and desist notice
d. a threat or initiation of a lawsuit, whether seeking damages, injunctive relief (including 
a temporary restraining order or preliminary or permanent injunction) or declaratory 
relief; and
e. in respect of INSURING CLAUSES 1 (SECTION E only) and 2 (SECTION D only), a 
regulatory investigation
8."Claims managers" means
the claims managers stated in the Declarations page.
9."Client" means
any third party with whom you have a contract in place for the supply of your technology 
services in return for a fee, or where a fee would normally be expected to be paid.
10."Company" means
the company named as the insured in the Declarations page or any subsidiary.
18
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.011."Computer systems" means
all electronic computers including operating systems, software, hardware, microcontrollers 
and all communication and open system networks and any data or websites wheresoever 
hosted, off-line media libraries and data back-ups and mobile devices including but not 
limited to smartphones, iPhones, tablets or personal digital assistants.
12."Continuity date" means
the inception date or if you have maintained uninterrupted insurance of the same type with 
us, the date this insurance was first incepted with us.
13."Costs and expenses" means
a.third party legal and professional expenses (including disbursements) reasonably 
incurred in the defense of claims or circumstances which could reasonably be 
expected to give rise to a claim or in quashing or challenging the scope of any 
injunction, subpoena or witness summons;
b. any post judgment interest; and
c. the cost of appeal, attachment and similar bonds including bail and penal bonds.
Subject to all costs and expenses being incurred with the claims managers' prior written 
agreement (which will not be unreasonably withheld).
14."Cryptojacking" means
the unauthorized use of your computer systems by a third party for the sole purpose of 
cryptocurrency mining activities.
15."Cyber event" means
any actual or suspected:
a. unauthorized system access, electronic attack on computer systems:
i. used directly by you; or
ii. in respect of INSURING CLAUSE 6 (SECTION F only),used directly by a supply 
chain partner,
including an attack that utilizes artificial intelligence (AI), denial of service attack, cyber 
terrorism, hacking attack, Trojan horse, phishing attack, man-in-the-middle attack, 
application-layer attack, compromised key attack, malware infection (including spyware 
or ransomware), computer virus or actions of a rogue employee.
b.privacy breach
16."Cyber incident response line" means
the telephone number stated as the cyber incident response line in the Declarations page.
19
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.017."Cyber war" means
any unauthorized access to or electronic attack on computer systems, carried out by or on 
behalf of a state, that directly results in another state becoming an impacted state.
18."Deductible" means
the amount stated as the deductible in the Declarations page.
19."Employee" means
any employee of the company, any volunteer working for the company and any individual 
working for the company as an independent contractor.
20."Employee benefit program" means
the company's insurance, pension or other benefit programs.
21."Expiry date" means
the expiry date stated in the Declarations page.
22."Extra expense" means
your reasonable sums necessarily incurred in addition to your normal operating expenses to 
mitigate an interruption to and continue your business activities, provided that the costs are 
less than your expected income loss sustained had these measures not been taken.
23."Impacted state" means
any state that suffers a major detrimental impact on its:
a. ability to function; or
b. defense and security capabilities;
as a direct result of any unauthorized access to or electronic attack on computer systems, 
carried out by or on behalf of another state.
24."Inception date" means
the inception date stated in the Declarations page.
25."Incident response limit" means
the highest individual limit available, where cover is applicable, under INSURING CLAUSE 3 as 
stated in the Declarations page.
26."Income loss" means
your income that, had the cyber event, system failure or operator error which gave rise to the 
claim not occurred, would have been generated directly from your business activities (less 
sales tax) during the indemnity period or reputational harm period, less:
20
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0a. actual income (less sales tax) generated directly from your business activities during 
the indemnity period or reputational harm period; and
b. any cost savings achieved as a direct result of the reduction in income.
27."Indemnity period" means
the period starting from the first occurrence of:
a. the computer systems downtime; or
b. the downtime of computer systems used directly by a supply chain partner;
and lasting up to the period stated as the indemnity period in the Declarations page.
28."Intellectual property rights" means
any intellectual property right including, but not limited to, copyright, trademark (including 
any trade name that has been registered as a trademark), trade dilution, trade dress, design 
rights, domain name rights, moral rights, service mark or service name.
“Intellectual property rights” do not include any patent.
29."Limit of liability" means
if expressed in the Declarations page as:
a. "limit of liability", the maximum amount payable by us in respect of each claim; or
b. "aggregate limit of liability", the maximum amount payable by us in respect of all 
claims.
30."Loss" means
any direct financial loss sustained by the company.
31."Medical expenses" means
reasonable and necessary expenses for:
a. first aid administered at the time of an accident;
b. medical, surgical, x-ray and dental services, including prosthetic devices; and
c. ambulance, hospital, professional nursing and funeral services.
32."Operator error" means
any unintentional human error in entering or amending electronic data within your computer 
systems or in the upgrade, maintenance or configuration of those computer systems, where 
the proximate cause is not physical damage to any tangible equipment or property.
"Operator error" does not mean any error in the design or architecture of any computer 
systems.
21
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.033."Payment card breach" means
an actual or suspected unauthorized disclosure of payment card data stored or processed by 
you arising out of an electronic attack, accidental disclosure or the deliberate actions of a 
rogue employee.
"Payment card breach" does not mean a situation where payment card data is deliberately 
shared with or sold to a third party with the knowledge and consent of a senior executive 
officer.
34."Period of the policy" means
the period between the inception date and the expiry date or until the Policy is canceled in 
accordance with CONDITION 6.
35."Personal injury" means
a. false arrest, detention or imprisonment;
b. malicious prosecution; or
c. wrongful entry into, or eviction of a person from, a room, dwelling or premises that the 
person occupies.
36."Pollutants" means
any solid, liquid, gaseous, radiological or thermal irritant, toxic or hazardous substance, or 
contaminant including, but not limited to smoke, vapor, soot, fumes, acids, alkalis, chemicals 
and waste materials, including recycled, reconditioned or reclaimed materials.
37."Pollution" means
the discharge, dispersal, release, migration, seepage or escape of pollutants.
38."Premium" means
the amount stated as the premium in the Declarations page and any subsequent 
adjustments.
39."Privacy breach" means
an actual or suspected unauthorized disclosure of information arising out of an electronic 
attack, accidental disclosure, theft or the deliberate actions of a rogue employee or third 
party, including Personally Identifiable Information (PII), Protected Health Information (PHI) 
and payment card information.
"Privacy breach" does not mean a situation where information is deliberately shared with or 
sold to a third party with the knowledge and consent of a senior executive officer.
40."Product" means
any tangible property, other than a technology product, that has been manufactured, altered, 
distributed or installed by you or on your behalf.
22
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.041."Property damage" means
direct physical damage to, destruction of, loss of possession or loss of use of tangible property.
42."Regulatory investigation" means
a formal hearing, official investigation, examination, inquiry, legal action or any other similar 
proceeding initiated by a governmental, regulatory, law enforcement, professional or 
statutory body against you.
43."Reputational harm period" means
the period starting from when the cyber event is first discovered and lasting for the period 
stated as the reputational harm period in the Declarations page.
44."Retroactive date" means
the retroactive date stated in the Declarations page.
45."Senior executive officer" means
board members, C-level executives, in-house lawyers and risk managers of the company.
46."State" means
sovereign state.
47."Subsidiary" means
any entity which the company has majority ownership of, meaning more than 50% 
ownership, on or before the inception date.
48."Supply chain partner" means
any:
a.third party that provides you with hosted computing services including infrastructure, 
platform, file storage and application level services; or
b.third party listed as a supply chain partner in an endorsement attaching to this policy 
which we have issued.
49."System failure" means
any sudden, unexpected and continuous downtime of your computer systems which renders 
them incapable of supporting their normal business function and is caused by an application 
bug, an internal network failure or hardware failure.
However, in respect of INSURING CLAUSE 6 (SECTION F only), system failure also means any 
sudden, unexpected and continuous downtime of computer systems used directly by a 
supply chain partner which renders them incapable of supporting their normal business 
function and is caused by an application bug, an internal network failure or hardware failure.
"System failure" does not mean a cyber event.
23
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.050."Technology product" means
any hardware, or any related electronic product, equipment, or device that is designed, 
manufactured, altered, repaired, distributed or installed, licensed, leased or sold by you or on 
your behalf.
51."Technology services" means
the supply by you or on your behalf of technology products or technology services, including 
but not limited to software development, software installation and maintenance, hardware 
design, hardware installation and maintenance, artificial intelligence development, artificial 
intelligence services, data processing, internet services, data and application hosting, 
computer systems analysis, consulting, training, programming, systems integration, IT 
support and network management, and as more fully described in the Declarations page.
52."Third party" means
any person who is not an employee or any legal entity that is not the company.
53."Time franchise" means
the number of hours stated as the time franchise in the Declarations page.
54."War" means
any physical:
a. war, invasion, acts of foreign enemies, hostilities or warlike operations (whether war is 
declared or not), civil war, rebellion, insurrection, civil commotion assuming the 
proportions of or amounting to an uprising, military or usurped power; or
b. action taken in controlling, preventing, suppressing or in any way relating to a. above.
55."We/our/us" means
the underwriters stated in the Declarations page.
56."Withheld fees" means
any contractually due fee that your client refuses to pay you, but excluding any part of the fee 
that represents your profit or mark-up or liability for taxes.
57."You/your" means
a. the company;
b. any past, present or future employees;
c. the estates, heirs, legal representatives or assigns of any employee in the event of their 
death, incapacity, insolvency or bankruptcy but only with respect to any act, error or 
omission committed or alleged to have been committed by the employee while acting 
in their capacity as employee; and
d. the parent, spouse, domestic partner, civil partner or child of any employee but only in 
respect of any claim made against them by reason of:
24
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0i. their status as parent, spouse, domestic partner, civil partner or child of the 
employee; or
ii. their ownership or interest in property which the claimant seeks as recovery for 
an alleged act, error or omission committed by the employee while acting in 
their capacity as employee.
 
EXCLUSIONS
 
We will not make any payment under this Policy:
EXCLUSIONS RELATING TO PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY
In respect of INSURING CLAUSE 1 only: 
1.Unauthorized funds transfer
arising directly out of any authorized or unauthorized electronic transfer of funds or financial 
assets, including where this results in any outstanding debt.
EXCLUSIONS RELATING TO COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY
In respect of INSURING CLAUSE 7 only: 
2.Communicable diseases
arising directly or indirectly out of, or in any way relating to any actual, threat or fear of any 
pathogen or disease, including any virus, bacterium, parasite or variation of these, which can 
be transmitted by any means directly or indirectly from any organism to another organism 
and can cause, or have the potential to cause:
a. damage to human health or welfare; or
b. physical damage or destruction to tangible property, including the deterioration, loss 
of use or reduction in value or marketability of the tangible property.
3.Cyber events
arising directly or indirectly out of any cyber event.
4.Faulty workmanship
for the cost to repair or replace, including any ensuing financial loss:
a. that part of any property that has been damaged by you, or a third party operating on 
your behalf, during its construction, distribution or installation;
b. that part of any property as a direct result of faulty workmanship by you, or a third 
party operating on your behalf, during its construction or installation; or
c. any undamaged property that contains any product, unless the product which the 
property contains has been damaged as a direct result of a sudden, unintended and 
unexpected incident after it has left your care, custody or control.
25
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.05.Financial loss
arising directly or indirectly out of third party financial loss, other than third party financial loss 
directly resulting from bodily injury, personal injury, advertising injury or property damage.
6.Land or water
arising directly or indirectly from damage by any description to land or water within or below 
the boundaries of any land or premises presently or at any time previously owned or leased by 
you or otherwise in your care, custody or control.
7.Long term hired or leased automobiles
arising directly or indirectly out of any bodily injury or property damage caused:
a. whilst driving an automobile which has been on hire from or leased to you by a third 
party for more than 30 consecutive days; or
b. by any trailer attached to an automobile stated in a. above.
8.Marine and aviation
arising directly or indirectly from the ownership, possession or use by you, or on your behalf, of 
any:
a. watercraft, other than any hovercraft, in excess of 10 meters in length; or
b. aircraft, drone, hovercraft, offshore installation, offshore rig or offshore platform.
9.Property in your care, custody or control
arising directly or indirectly out of property damage to third party property which is in your 
care, custody or control.
However, this Exclusion will not apply to INSURING CLAUSE 7 (SECTIONS E, H and I only).
In respect of INSURING CLAUSE 7, SECTION B: 
10.Content advertised prior to the continuity date
arising directly or indirectly out of any advertisement that was first published prior to the 
continuity date.
In respect of INSURING CLAUSE 7, SECTION G: 
11.Benefit laws
arising directly or indirectly out of your failure to comply with the mandatory provisions of any 
law concerning workers' compensation, unemployment insurance, social security, disability 
benefits or pension benefits.
26
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.012.Employee benefit program advice
arising directly or indirectly from advice given to any person to participate or not to 
participate in any plan included in your employee benefit program or the failure of any 
investment to perform as represented by you.
EXCLUSIONS RELATING TO ALL INSURING CLAUSES
13.Advertising injury
arising directly or indirectly out of advertising injury.
However, this Exclusion will not apply to INSURING CLAUSE 7 (SECTION B only).
14.Antitrust
for or arising out of any actual or alleged antitrust violation, restraint of trade, unfair 
competition, false, deceptive or unfair trade practices, violation of consumer protection laws 
or false or deceptive advertising other than any covered portion of any claim based on your 
alleged unauthorized use of a third party's trademark.
15.Asbestos
arising directly or indirectly out of the manufacturing, mining, use, sale, installation, removal, 
distribution of or exposure to asbestos, materials or products containing asbestos or asbestos 
fibers or asbestos dust.
16.Associated companies
a. in respect of any claim made by any company, firm or partnership in which the 
company has greater than a 15% executive or financial interest, unless the claim 
emanates from an independent third party;
b. in respect of any claim made by any company, firm, partnership or individual which 
has greater than a 15% executive or financial interest in the company, unless the claim 
emanates from an independent third party;
c. arising out of or resulting from any of your activities as a trustee, partner, officer, 
director or employee of any employee trust, charitable organization, corporation, 
company or business other than that of the company; or
d. in respect of any claim made by or on behalf of the company against a third party.
17.Auto
arising directly or indirectly from the ownership, possession or use of any motor vehicle or 
trailer other than bodily injury or property damage:
a. caused by the use of any tool or equipment forming part of or attached to or used in 
connection with any motor vehicle or trailer;
b. occurring beyond the limits of any carriageway or thoroughfare and caused by the 
loading or unloading of any motor vehicle or trailer;
27
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0c. arising out of the use of any motor vehicle or trailer temporarily in your custody or 
control for the purpose of parking; or
d. occurring beyond the limits of any carriageway or thoroughfare and caused by the use 
of any unlicensed vehicle, including but not limited to snowmobiles and all-terrain 
vehicles, in the course of your business activities;
provided always that we will not make any payment in respect of any legal liability for which 
compulsory insurance or security is required by legislation or for which a government or other 
authority has accepted responsibility.
However, this Exclusion will not apply to INSURING CLAUSE 7 (SECTIONS H and I only).
18.Betterment
which results in you being in a better financial position or you benefitting from upgraded 
versions of your computer systems as a direct result of the event which gave rise to the claim 
under this policy.
However, this Exclusion will not apply to INSURING CLAUSE 6 (SECTION B only).
19.Bodily injury
in respect of INSURING CLAUSES 1 and 2, arising directly or indirectly out of bodily injury.
However, this Exclusion will not apply to:
a.INSURING CLAUSES 1 (SECTION A only) and 2 (SECTION F only); and
b.INSURING CLAUSES 1 (SECTION D only) and 2 (SECTIONS A, B and C only) for any claim 
as a direct result of mental injury or emotional distress.
20.Breach of contract
arising directly out of any breach of contract.
However, this Exclusion will not apply to:
a.INSURING CLAUSE 1 (SECTIONS A, B and D only); and
b.INSURING CLAUSE 7, if liability would have attached in the absence of that contract.
21.Chargebacks
for any credit card company or bank, wholly or partially, reversing or preventing a payment 
transaction, unless specifically covered under INSURING CLAUSE 2 (SECTION E only) for which 
you have purchased coverage.
22.Collection of private data without consent
arising directly or indirectly out of any actual or alleged failure to obtain consent or 
agreement from any private individual before collecting, storing or processing any of their 
28
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0personal information, including personally identifiable information (PII), internet search 
history and internet browsing habits.
23.Core infrastructure failure
in respect of INSURING CLAUSES 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 9, arising directly or indirectly out of any:
a. failure, material degradation or termination of any core element of the internet, 
telecommunications or GPS infrastructure that results in a regional, countrywide or 
global outage of the internet or telecommunications network, including a failure of 
the core DNS root servers, satellite network or the IP addressing system or an 
individual state or non-state actor disabling all or part of the internet;
b. failure in the power supply, including where the failure is caused by any surge or spike 
in voltage, electrical current or transferred energy; or
c. failure, disruption or reduction in the supply of utilities, including telecommunications, 
gas and water infrastructure or services.
24.Cryptocurrency
arising directly or indirectly out of any:
a. theft or loss of; or
b. provision of, or failure to provide, any advice, consultancy or any other services or 
activities relating to;
any crypto asset, including cryptocurrency, utility tokens, securities tokens, ecosystem tokens 
or any other type of digital currency.
25.Directors and officers liability
arising out of any personal liability incurred by your senior executive officers when they are 
acting in that capacity or managing you, or arising from any statement, representation or 
information regarding your business contained within any accounts, reports or financial 
statements.
However, this Exclusion will not apply to INSURING CLAUSE 2 (SECTION C only).
26.Employers' liability
arising directly or indirectly out of bodily injury to your employees.
27.Employment disputes
arising directly or indirectly out of any:
a. employer-employee relations, policies or practices;
b. actual or alleged refusal to employ any person;
c. actual or alleged breach by any employee of any term or condition of any express or 
implied contract between them and any past employer of theirs, including breaching 
29
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0any restrictive covenant, covenant not to compete, non-disparagement agreement, 
confidentiality agreement or non-solicitation agreement; or
d. actual or alleged conduct by you that defames, libels, slanders, disparages or harasses 
any past employer of any employee or interferes with any past, present or prospective 
employment or contractual relationship between any employee and any past 
employer of theirs.
28.ERISA
based upon the Employment Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, and any amendment 
thereto, or any rules or regulations promulgated thereunder.
29.Extended warranty
arising directly or indirectly out of any extended warranty agreement, unless liability would 
have attached in the absence of that agreement.
30.Insolvency
arising out of or relating directly or indirectly to your insolvency or bankruptcy, or the 
insolvency or bankruptcy of any third party. However, your insolvency will not relieve us of any 
of our legal obligations under this contract of insurance where this insolvency does not give 
rise to a claim under this Policy.
31.Intellectual property rights and defamation
arising directly or indirectly out of defamation or any infringement of intellectual property 
rights.
However, this Exclusion will not apply to INSURING CLAUSES 1 (SECTION D only) or 7 
(SECTION B only).
32.Joint venture
arising directly or indirectly out of any:
a. activities related to a joint business venture between you and any third party or any 
entity that is owned or controlled in part by you or any third party related to the joint 
business venture; or
b.claim made against you by any third party related to a joint business venture or any 
entity that is owned or controlled in part by any third party related to the joint business 
venture.
33.Known claims and circumstances
arising out of any actual or suspected cyber event, claim, loss, operator error, system failure or 
circumstance which might give rise to a claim under this Policy which a senior executive 
officer was aware of, or ought reasonably to have been aware of, prior to the continuity date, 
including any claim or circumstance notified to any other insurer.
30
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.034.Legal action
where any legal action is brought outside the legal action territories stated in the Declarations 
page, or where an action is brought within those territories to enforce a judgment outside of 
those territories whether by way of reciprocal agreement or otherwise.
35.Liquidated damages, service credits and penalty clauses
for liquidated damages or service credits, or arising out of penalty clauses unless you would 
have been liable in the absence of any contract stipulating the liquidated damages or service 
credits or penalty clauses.
36.Loss of economic value
for the reduction in economic or market value (including loss of potential future sales) of any 
of your intellectual property assets.
37.Misleading advertising
arising directly or indirectly from any advertisement, promotion or product description that is 
actually or alleged to be false or misleading.
However, this Exclusion will not apply to INSURING CLAUSE 7 (SECTION B only).
38.Nuclear
arising directly or indirectly from or contributed to by:
a. ionizing radiations or contamination by radioactivity from any nuclear fuel or from any 
nuclear waste from the combustion of nuclear fuel; or
b. the radioactive, toxic, explosive or other hazardous properties of any explosive nuclear 
assembly or nuclear component.
39.Other insurance
for which you are entitled to indemnity under any other insurance except for:
a. any additional sum which is payable over and above the other insurance where that 
insurance has been declared to us; or
b. any contribution that we are obliged to make by law and that contribution will be in 
proportion to the indemnity available under the Policies.
40.Patent infringement
arising directly or indirectly out of the actual or alleged infringement or inducement of 
infringement of any patent, including any application for a patent that has not yet been 
granted.
41.Payment card industry related fines, penalties and assessments
for fines, penalties and card brand assessments, including fraud recoveries, operational 
reimbursements, non-cooperation costs and case management fees which you become 
31
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0legally obliged to pay your acquiring bank or payment processor as a direct result of a 
payment card breach.
However, this Exclusion will not apply to INSURING CLAUSE 2 (SECTION E only).
42.Personal injury
arising directly or indirectly out of personal injury.
However, this Exclusion will not apply to INSURING CLAUSE 7 (SECTION B only).
43.Personal liability
in respect of any action brought against any past, present or future employee, unless arising 
directly out of work performed for the company.
44.Pollution
arising directly or indirectly out of pollution.
However, this Exclusion will not apply to INSURING CLAUSE 7 (SECTION D only).
45.Product recall
for the costs to withdraw, recall, dispose, remove, repair, adjust, alter, recondition, replace or 
reinstate, any product or part of a product.
However, this Exclusion will not apply to INSURING CLAUSE 1 where you are legally liable for 
those costs as the direct result of any act, error or omission committed by you.
46.Products liability
arising directly out of any bodily injury or property damage caused directly by any product.
However, this Exclusion will not apply to INSURING CLAUSE 7 (SECTION C only).
47.Property damage
in respect of INSURING CLAUSES 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 9, arising directly or indirectly out of 
property damage.
However, this Exclusion will not apply to:
a.INSURING CLAUSE 1 (SECTION A only)
b.INSURING CLAUSE 6 (SECTION B only), in respect of the cost of repairing any hardware 
or replacing any tangible property or equipment that forms part of your computer 
systems.
32
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.048.Property perils
in respect of INSURING CLAUSES 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 9, arising directly or indirectly out of any fire, 
earthquake or earth movement of any kind, flood, hail, hurricane, lightning strike, solar storm, 
tornado, tsunami, volcano, wildfire or windstorm.
49.Related or associated company confidential business information
arising directly or indirectly out of any actual or alleged misappropriation, unauthorized use or 
disclosure by any employee of any idea, trade secret or other confidential business 
information which they were a party to or which they otherwise had possession of prior to 
being employed by the company.
However, this Exclusion will not apply to INSURING CLAUSE 2 (SECTION A only) solely in 
respect of any claim arising out of any actual or suspected electronic attack or unauthorized 
system access by any third party.
50.Retroactive date
in respect of INSURING CLAUSES 1 and 7 (SECTION G only), arising out of any act, error or 
omission committed or alleged to have been committed on or before the retroactive date, or 
any related or continuing acts, errors or omissions where the act, error or omission was first 
committed or alleged to have been first committed on or before the retroactive date.
51.RICO
for any actual or alleged violations of the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organization Act 
and any subsequent amendments to this Act.
52.Securities violations
for any actual or alleged violation of any laws or regulations relating to the offer or sale of 
securities.
53.Seizure of illegal property
arising from an order by a public or government authority which deprives you of the use or 
value of your property or arising from acts of contraband or illegal transportation or illegal 
trade.
54.Terrorism
arising directly or indirectly out of:
a. any act or threat of force or violence by an individual or group, whether acting alone or 
on behalf of or in connection with any organization or government, committed for 
political, religious, ideological or similar purposes including the intention to influence 
any government or to put the public, or any section of the public, in fear; or
b. any action taken in controlling, preventing, suppressing or in any way relating to a. 
above.
33
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0However, this Exclusion does not apply to a cyber event affecting your computer systems or a 
supply chain partner's computer systems.
55.Toxic mold
arising directly or indirectly from the toxic properties of any fungus, mold, mildew or yeast.
56.Uninsurable fines
for fines, penalties, civil or criminal sanctions, and for multiple, punitive or exemplary 
damages, unless insurable by law.
57.Unjust enrichment
for that part of any claim that results in you being in a better financial position as a direct 
result of your act, error or omission than you would have been if you had not committed the 
act, error or omission.
However, this Exclusion will not apply to any refund of any fee, other than the part of the fee 
that represents your profit or mark-up or liability for taxes.
58.Unlawful surveillance
in respect of any actual or alleged eavesdropping, wiretapping, or unauthorized audio or 
video recording committed by you or by a third party on your behalf.
59.Unsolicited communications
arising directly or indirectly from any actual or alleged violation of:
a. the CAN-SPAM Act of 2003 or any subsequent amendments to that Act;
b. the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (TCPA) of 1991 or any subsequent 
amendments to that Act; or
c. any other law, regulation or statute relating to unsolicited communication, 
distribution, sending or transmitting of any communication via telephone or any other 
electronic or telecommunications device.
However, this Exclusion will not apply to INSURING CLAUSE 2 (SECTION A only).
60.War and cyber war
arising directly or indirectly out of:
a.war; or
b.cyber war.
However, part b. above will not apply to:
a.INSURING CLAUSE 3 (SECTION A only); and
b. that part of any claim relating to any computer systems which are physically located 
outside of an impacted state.
34
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.061.Website and application content accessibility
arising directly or indirectly out of the actual or alleged violation of any laws, regulations or 
guidelines relating to the accessibility of your website or application content, or any website 
or application content you have created for any third party.
62.Willful or dishonest acts of senior executive officers
arising directly or indirectly out of any willful, criminal, malicious or dishonest act, error or 
omission by a senior executive officer as determined by final adjudication, arbitral tribunal or 
written admission.
 
CONDITIONS
 
1.What you must do in the event of a claim or cyber incident
If any senior executive officer becomes aware of any incident which may reasonably be 
expected to give rise to a claim under this Policy you must:
a. notify the claims managers as soon as is reasonably practicable (in respect of cyber 
incidents, a telephone call to our cyber incident response line will constitute 
notification). However, this notification must be made no later than the end of any 
applicable extended reporting period;
b. in respect of INSURING CLAUSES 4 and 5, report the theft or incident as soon as is 
reasonably practicable to the appropriate law enforcement authorities and provide us 
with a copy of this report on our request;
c. in respect of INSURING CLAUSE 5, not incur any costs or promise any payment, 
including any ransom payment, without our prior written agreement (which will not 
be unreasonably withheld);
d. not admit liability for or settle or make or promise any payment or incur any costs and 
expenses without our prior written agreement (which will not be unreasonably 
withheld); and
e. provide us in a timely manner with any other information and assistance that we may 
request.
In respect of INSURING CLAUSES 1 and 7 (SECTION G only), if you notify an incident that we 
agree is reasonably expected to give rise to a claim, we will accept any claim that arises out of 
the incident as being notified under this Policy.
We require you to provide full details of the incident, including but not limited to:
a. the time, place and nature of the incident;
b. the manner in which you first became aware of this incident;
35
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0c. the reasons why you believe that this incident could give rise to a claim under this 
Policy;
d. the identity of the potential claimant; and
e. an indication as to the size of the claim that could result from this incident.
In respect of INSURING CLAUSES 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 9, if you discover a cyber event you may only 
incur costs, other than costs incurred to respond to an extortion demand (including any 
ransom payment), without our prior written consent within the first 72 hours following the 
discovery and any third party costs incurred must be with a company forming part of the 
approved claims panel providers. All other costs may only be incurred with the prior written 
consent of the claims managers (which will not be unreasonably withheld).
2.Additional insureds
We will indemnify any third party as an additional insured under this Policy, but only in 
respect of sums which they become legally obliged to pay (including liability for claimants' 
costs and expenses) as a result of a claim arising solely out of an act committed by you, 
provided that:
a.you contracted in writing to indemnify the third party for the claim prior to it first 
being made against them; and
b. had the claim been made against you, then you would be entitled to indemnity under 
this Policy.
Before we indemnify any additional insured they must:
a. prove to us that the claim arose solely out of an act committed by you; and
b. fully comply with CONDITION 1 as if they were you.
Where we indemnify a third party as an additional insured under this Policy, this Policy will be 
primary and non-contributory to the third party's own insurance, but only if you and the third 
party have entered into a contract that contains a provision requiring this.
Where a third party is treated as an additional insured as a result of this Condition, any claim 
made by that third party against you will be treated by us as if they were a third party and not 
as an insured.
3.Agreement to pay claims (duty to defend)
We have the right and duty to take control of and conduct in your name the investigation, 
settlement or defense of any claim. We will not have any duty to pay costs and expenses for 
any part of a claim that is not covered by this Policy.
You may ask the claims managers to consider appointing your own lawyer to defend the 
claim on your behalf and the claims managers may grant your request if they consider your 
36
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0lawyer is suitably qualified by experience, taking into account the subject matter of the claim, 
and the cost to provide a defense.
We will endeavor to settle any claim through negotiation, mediation or some other form of 
alternative dispute resolution and will pay on your behalf the amount we agree with the 
claimant. If we cannot settle using these means, we will pay the amount which you are found 
liable to pay either in court or through arbitration proceedings, subject to the limit of liability.
We will not settle any claim without your consent. If you refuse to provide your consent to a 
settlement recommended by us and elect to continue legal proceedings in connection with 
the claim, any further costs and expenses incurred will be paid by you and us on a 
proportional basis, with 50% payable by us and 50% payable by you. As a consequence of your 
refusal, our liability for the claim, excluding costs and expenses, will not be more than the 
amount for which the claim could have been settled.
4.Application warranty
You agree that all statements made by you in the application form, including any renewal 
application form, and any supplemental materials you have supplied in support of the 
application for insurance, are your agreements and representations to us and the Policy is 
issued in reliance upon that information. The misrepresentation or non-disclosure of any 
matter by you or your agent will render this Policy null and void and relieve us from all liability 
under this Policy.
5.Calculation of business interruption losses
Following an interruption to your business activities covered under INSURING CLAUSE 6 
(SECTIONS C, D, E or F only), you must provide us with your calculation of the loss including:
a. how the loss has been calculated and what assumptions have been made; and
b. supporting documents including account statements, sales projections and invoices.
6.Cancellation
This Policy may be canceled with 30 days written notice by either you or us.
If you give us notice of cancellation, the return premium will be in proportion to the number 
of days that the Policy is in effect. However, if you have made a claim under this Policy there 
will be no return premium.
If we give you notice of cancellation, the return premium will be in proportion to the number 
of days that the Policy is in effect.
We also reserve the right of cancellation in the event that any amount due to us by you 
remains unpaid more than 60 days beyond the inception date. If we exercise this right of 
cancellation it will take effect from 14 days after the date the written notice of cancellation is 
issued.
37
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0The Policy Administration Fee will be deemed fully earned upon inception of the Policy.
7.Continuous cover
In respect of INSURING CLAUSES 1 and 7 (SECTION G only), if during the period of a previous 
renewal of this Policy you neglected, through error or oversight only, to report to us an 
incident that might give rise to a claim, then provided you have maintained uninterrupted 
insurance of the same type with us since expiry of the previous renewal of this Policy, we will 
permit the incident to be reported to us under this Policy and we will indemnify you under 
this Policy in respect of any claim that arises out of the incident, provided:
a. the indemnity will be subject to the applicable limit of liability of the previous renewal 
of this Policy under which the incident should have been reported to us or the 
applicable limit of liability, whichever is the lower;
b.we may reduce the indemnity entitlement by the monetary equivalent of any 
prejudice which has been suffered as a result of the delayed notification; and
c. the indemnity will be subject to all other terms and conditions of this Policy.
We require you to provide full details of the incident, including but not limited to:
a. the time, place and nature of the incident;
b. the manner in which you first became aware of this incident;
c. reasons why you believe that this incident could give rise to a claim;
d. the identity of the potential claimant; and
e. an indication as to the size of the claim that could result from this incident.
For the avoidance of doubt, this Condition only applies to incidents that might give rise to a 
claim.
8.Cross liability and severability
In respect of INSURING CLAUSE 7 only, where there is more than one entity insured under 
this Policy, and subject to the limit of liability, any claim made by one insured entity against 
another insured entity will be treated as if they are a third party and knowledge possessed by 
one insured entity will not be imputed to any other insured entity.
9.Dispute resolution
All disputes or differences between you and us will be referred to mediation or arbitration and 
will take place in the country of registration of the company named as the insured in the 
Declarations page.
In respect of any arbitration proceeding we will follow the applicable rules of the arbitration 
association in the country where the company stated as the insured in the Declarations page 
is registered, the rules of which are deemed incorporated into this Policy by reference to this 
Condition. Unless the applicable arbitration association rules state otherwise, a single 
38
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0arbitrator will be appointed who will be mutually agreed between you and us. If you and we 
cannot agree on a suitable appointment then we will refer the appointment to the applicable 
arbitration association.
Each party will bear its own fees and costs in connection with any mediation or arbitration 
proceeding but the fees and expenses of the arbitrator will be shared equally between you 
and us unless the arbitration award provides otherwise.
Nothing in this Condition is intended to remove your rights under CONDITION 22. However, if 
a determination is made in any mediation or arbitration proceeding, CONDITION 22 is 
intended only as an aid to enforce this determination.
10.Fraudulent claims
If it is determined by final adjudication, arbitral tribunal or written admission by you, that you 
notified us of any claim knowing it to be false or fraudulent in any way, we will have no 
responsibility to pay that claim, we may recover from you any sums paid in respect of that 
claim and we reserve the right to terminate this Policy from the date of the fraudulent act. If 
we exercise this right, we will not be liable to return any premium to you. However, this will 
not affect any non-fraudulent claim under this Policy which has been previously notified to us.
11.Extended reporting period
An extended reporting period of 60 days following the expiry date will be automatically 
granted at no additional premium. This extended reporting period will cover, subject to all 
other terms, conditions and exclusions of this Policy:
a. in respect of INSURING CLAUSES 1 and 7 (SECTION G only), any claim first made 
against you during the period of the policy and reported to us during this extended 
reporting period;
b. in respect of INSURING CLAUSES 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 9, any cyber event, loss, operator error 
or system failure first discovered by you during the period of the policy and reported to 
us during this extended reporting period; and
c. any circumstance that a senior executive officer became aware of during the period of 
the policy and reports to us during this extended reporting period.
No claim will be accepted by us in this 60 day extended reporting period if you are entitled to 
indemnity under any other insurance, or would be entitled to indemnity under such 
insurance if its limit of liability was not exhausted.
12.Optional extended reporting period
If we or you decline to renew or cancel this Policy then you will have the right to have issued 
an endorsement providing an optional extended reporting period for the duration stated in 
the Declarations page which will be effective from the cancellation or non-renewal date.
39
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0This optional extended reporting period will cover, subject to all other terms, conditions and 
exclusions of this Policy:
a. in respect of INSURING CLAUSES 1 and 7 (SECTION G only), any claim first made 
against you and reported to us during this optional extended reporting period, 
provided that the claim arises out of any act, error or omission committed prior to the 
date of cancellation or non-renewal; and
b. in respect of INSURING CLAUSES 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 and 9, any cyber event, loss, operator error 
or system failure first discovered by you during this optional extended reporting 
period, provided that the cyber event, loss, operator error or system failure first 
occurred during the period of the policy.
If you would like to purchase the optional extended reporting period you must notify us and 
pay us the optional extended reporting period premium stated in the Declarations page 
within 30 days of cancellation or non-renewal.
The right to the optional extended reporting period will not be available to you where 
cancellation or non-renewal by us is due to non-payment of the premium or your failure to 
pay any amounts in excess of the applicable limit of liability or within the amount of the 
applicable deductible as is required by this Policy in the payment of claims.
At the renewal of this Policy, our quotation of different premium, deductible, limits of liability 
or changes in policy language will not constitute non-renewal by us.
13.Maintenance of employee automobile liability insurance
It is a condition precedent to indemnity under INSURING CLAUSE 7 (SECTIONS H and I only) 
that all employees who operate an automobile in the course of your business activities will 
maintain in full force and effect for the period of the policy primary automobile liability 
insurance in an amount equal to, or greater than, the minimum primary automobile liability 
limits required in the state of registration of the automobile. If you make a claim under 
INSURING CLAUSE 7 (SECTIONS H and I only) and the employee has failed to meet these 
requirements then this Policy will only respond to provide excess coverage as though the 
requirements had been met, whereby you agree to pay all sums within and up to the required 
minimum limit.
14.Mergers and acquisitions
If you acquire an entity during the period of the policy whose annual revenue does not exceed 
20% of the company's annual revenue, as stated in its most recent annual financial 
statements, cover is automatically extended under this Policy to include the entity as a 
subsidiary.
40
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0If you acquire an entity during the period of the policy whose annual revenue exceeds 20% of 
the company's annual revenue, as stated in its most recent annual financial statements, cover 
is automatically extended under this Policy to include the entity as a subsidiary for 45 days.
We will consider providing cover for the acquired entity after the period of 45 days if:
a.you give us full details of the entity within 45 days of its acquisition; and
b.you accept any amendment to the terms and conditions of this Policy and agree to 
pay any additional premium required by us.
In the event you do not comply with a. and b. above, cover will automatically terminate for the 
entity 45 days after the date of its acquisition.
If we agree to cover the acquired entity we will issue a mergers and acquisitions endorsement 
noting the acquired entity has cover under this Policy. If no endorsement is issued cover will 
automatically terminate for the entity 45 days after the date of its acquisition
Cover for any acquired entity is only provided under this Policy for any act, error or omission 
committed or alleged to have been committed on or after the date of its acquisition.
No cover will be automatically provided under this Policy for any acquired entity:
a. whose business activities are materially different from your business activities;
b. that has been the subject of any lawsuit, disciplinary action or regulatory investigation 
in the 3 year period prior to its acquisition; or
c. that has experienced a cyber event in the 3 years period prior to its acquisition, if you 
have purchased INSURING CLAUSES 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or 9 and the cyber event cost more 
than the highest deductible of INSURING CLAUSES 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 or 9.
15.Run-off cover
In the event you consolidate, merge with or are acquired by another entity during the period 
of the policy, then cover under this Policy will continue to apply but only in respect of any act, 
error or omission committed or alleged to have been committed prior to the effective date of 
the consolidation, merger or acquisition.
16.New subsidiaries
If you create an entity during the period of the policy cover is automatically extended under 
this Policy to include the entity as a subsidiary for 45 days.
We will consider providing cover for the created entity after the period of 45 days if:
a.you give us full details of the entity within 45 days of its creation; and
b.you accept any amendment to the terms and conditions of this Policy and agree to 
pay any additional premium required by us.
41
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0In the event you do not comply with a. and b. above, cover will automatically terminate for the 
entity 45 days after the date of its creation.
Cover for any created entity is only provided under this Policy for any act, error or omission 
committed or alleged to have been committed on or after the date of its creation.
No cover will be automatically provided under this Policy for any created entity whose 
business activities are materially different from your business activities.
17.Our rights of recovery
If we make any payment under this Policy and you have any right of recovery against a third 
party in respect of this payment, then we will maintain this right of recovery. You will do 
whatever is reasonably necessary to secure this right and will not do anything after the event 
which gave rise to the claim to prejudice this right.
We will not exercise any rights of recovery against any employee, unless this is in respect of 
any fraudulent or dishonest acts or omissions as proven by final adjudication, arbitral tribunal 
or written admission by the employee.
Any recoveries will be applied as follows:
a. towards any recovery expenses incurred by us;
b. then to us up to the amount of our payment under this Policy, including costs and 
expenses;
c. then to you as recovery of your deductible.
18.Prior subsidiaries
Should an entity cease to be a subsidiary after the inception date, cover in respect of the 
entity will continue as if it was still a subsidiary during the period of the policy, but only in 
respect of an act, error, omission or event occurring prior to the date that it ceased to be a 
subsidiary.
19.Process for paying privacy breach notification costs
Any privacy breach notification transmitted by you or on your behalf must be done with our 
prior written consent. We will ensure that notification is compliant with any legal or 
regulatory requirements and contractual obligations and transmitted using the most cost 
effective means permissible under the governing law. No offer must be made for financial 
incentives, gifts, coupons, credits or services unless with our prior written consent which will 
only be provided if the offer is commensurate with the risk of harm.
We will not be liable for any portion of the costs you incur under INSURING CLAUSE 3 
(SECTION E only) that exceed the costs that you would have incurred had you gained our 
prior written consent. In the absence of our prior written consent we will only be liable to pay 
42
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0you the equivalent cost of a notification made using the most cost effective means 
permissible under the governing law.
If a senior executive officer becomes aware that a client has suffered a privacy breach, you and 
we agree that you will:
a. endeavor as much as is reasonably practicable that any privacy breach notification 
transmitted by or on behalf of your client is compliant with any legal or regulatory 
requirements and contractual obligations and transmitted using the most cost 
effective means permissible under the governing law; and
b. fully comply with CONDITION 1.
20.Waiver of subrogation
Notwithstanding CONDITION 17, we agree to waive our rights of recovery against any third 
party if, prior to the claim or incident which you reasonably expected to give rise to a claim, 
you entered into a contract that contains a provision requiring you to do this.
21.Sanctions suspension
It is a condition under this Policy that the provision of cover, the payment of any claim and the 
provision of any benefit will be suspended, to the extent that the provision of the cover, 
payment of the claim or provision of the benefit would expose us to any sanction, prohibition 
or restriction under the United Nations resolutions or the trade or economic sanctions, laws or 
regulations of Australia, Canada, the European Union, United Kingdom or United States of 
America. The suspension will continue until such time we would no longer be exposed to the 
sanction, prohibition or restriction.
22.Choice of law, jurisdiction and service of suit
In the event of a dispute between you and us regarding this Policy, the dispute will be 
governed by the laws of the State of the United States of America shown as the choice of law 
stated in the Declarations page. We agree, at your request, to submit to the jurisdiction of a 
court of competent jurisdiction within the United States of America.
Nothing in this Condition constitutes or should be understood to constitute a waiver of our 
rights to commence an action in any court of competent jurisdiction in the United States of 
America, to move an action to a United States District Court, or to seek a transfer of a case to 
another court as permitted by the laws of the United States of America or the laws of any 
State of the United States of America.
It is further agreed that service of process in such suit may be made upon the representative 
stated in the Declarations page and that in any suit instituted against us, we will abide by the 
final decision of such court or of any appellate court in the event of an appeal. The 
representative stated in the Declarations page is authorized and directed to accept service of 
43
©1999-2025 CFC Underwriting Limited. All rights reserved. Technology v5.0process on our behalf in any such suit and, at your request, to give a written undertaking to 
you that they will enter a general appearance on our behalf in the event such suit is instituted.
Additionally, in accordance with the statute of any state, territory or district of the United 
States which makes such a provision, we hereby designate the Superintendent, 
Commissioner or Director of Insurance or other officer specified for that purpose in the 
statute, or his successor or successors in office, as our true and lawful attorney upon whom 
may be served any lawful process in any action, suit or proceeding instituted by you arising 
out of this Policy. The representative stated in the Declarations page is hereby designated as 
the person to whom the above mentioned officer is authorized to mail such process or a copy 
thereof.
